Chapter 9: Dr. John Harvey
1

It only takes Mary and me about forty-five minutes to find the correct manual and learn enough to feel sufficiently confident to drive the MCU. It takes us another two hours to gain entry to it.
After locating the correct manual and a few quick conversations, we start loading up the back of the MCU. We load the Bio Suits, a few chairs, and anything else nearby that we think might be useful. The MCU has everything we need, supposedly, but it never hurts to have a little extra. 
With everything loaded, we make our way to the cabin of this magnificent beast. There are no doors. We go back into the central cargo area, and again are unable to find any entries. 
"How the hell do we get in this thing?" I ask.
This brings up another problem. We stupidly packed all the manuals in the back of the MCU. We will need these when/if we get where we are going. I hastily uncovered them and set them near the front tracks. Another fifteen minutes goes by before Mary crawls in the space between the rails and locates a hatch underneath. I can hear her opening the hatch from where I am and make my way over to her.
 
2

The cabin has seating for three. I start to head for the driver's seat, but Mary beats me to it.
"I think I'd like to take a try if it's all the same to you?" she asks.
"It's all the same to me," I say and sit in the seat on the other side of the cab.
This thing is amazing. It has dense glass windows where you would expect them to be, but it also has what appears to be a forty or so inch monitor in the console that shows all four sides at once. 
Mary starts powering everything up from memory. She is a quick study. I watch mesmerized as she goes through the startup sequence. I'm trying to keep up with her in my head, but I've already missed a few steps that she remembered.
"Can you get the bay door, John," she asks.
The door, of course. I open the hatch and crawl back out from underneath the beast. There are four bay doors adjacent to each other. I press the green button to raise the first bay door, and my expectations are met. Nothing happens. What to do? What to do? I look around and spot a forklift parked near the other side of the warehouse. I run over to it and fire it up.
I spend ten minutes or so trying to get the blades underneath the door. I have zero success. Out of frustration, I back up and go full speed into it with the tines about two feet high. I succeed in punching a hole in the door and getting the lift stuck. It will not lift the door. 
Another agonizing few minutes later, I get the lift free and drive it back to the other side of the warehouse. I press the pedal and get it going as fast as it will go. I hit the door at top speed. I'm not sure how fast that is, but it connects to the door and pushes through. I am thrown violently from the seat and slam into the concrete floor. I can hear my arm break as I land.
My first sensation isn't the pain from my newly broken arm. It is cold. Desperate cold. I have to get inside the MCU. I see Mary's feet below the beast, and I yell for her to get back in. I'm holding my arm as best as I can, and it hurts like a bitch, but I'm pretty sure I'll die out here in a matter of minutes if I don't seek shelter.
Back inside the MCU, I grasp the heater knob with my unspoiled hand, the only control that has any semblance of normalcy, and turn it to high. Mary slowly, but confidentially drives us out of the warehouse.
 
3

There are a few inches of snow on the ground, but the beast plows through it nicely. I can see the first flakes of new snow falling. As the temperature drops, this will only get worse.
We are rapidly coming upon a gate to the facility. Mary doesn't even attempt to slow down. She drives right through it, knocking the gate wide open. Why didn't you just ask her to do that with the bay door doctor? 
I could not have been more wrong with my initial impression of her. She was built for this. I can totally see her now with her hair let down, a halter top on and too-short shorts. Maybe even riding in my convertible next to me.
"Ow!" I exclaim, my pain bringing me out of this beautiful fantasy.
"What's wrong, John?" Mary asks without taking her eyes off the road.
"I think I broke my arm back there," I say gauging her facial expression. I am rewarded with a look of grief. It makes the pain a little more bearable.
"I should stop and help you sling it," she begins before I cut her off.
"No, no, stay the course. I can take care of it for now. We have got to wherever we're going as quickly as we can. This snow that we're seeing is only going to get worse, much worse," I say trying to mask the dread I feel.
I can tell that I have concealed it poorly by her reply.
"How bad will it get?" she asks hopefully.
I look at her for a long minute. It will do no good to lie to her. She will find out for herself soon enough. Maybe the truth ahead of time will allow her mind a little time to adjust.
"As the temperature drops, the gasses in our atmosphere will begin to freeze. Once this starts, the gas will begin snowing down on the earth. Eventually, they will all freeze and fall. We will no longer have the protection from radiation that the atmosphere provides. We will cease to be able to breathe on the surface as there will be nothing to breathe. And the accumulation of snow from the frozen gasses is estimated to be about one hundred meters," I said remorsefully.
"One hundred meters of snow?" she asks with shock evident on her face.
"Yes, give or take a few meters. That is what is estimated," I reply.
Mary turns green. It looks like she's going to be sick. I find a small pale behind her seat and quickly give it to her. She vomits violently into it as the beast rolls to a stop.
"I can't believe this. I've told myself that we can sustain life, and I really think we can, but I haven't come to grip with not being able to breathe on the surface. No more rolling hills of grass. No more forests. No more anything. It just makes me so sad," she murmurs. She is crying uncontrollably now.
I unbuckle my seatbelt and move to the seat beside her. I gingerly wrapped my good arm around her. I want to comfort her, but I don't know-how. How could I? it doesn't help that she's fifteen years or so younger than me either. I pat her on the back while we are embracing. She moves her face into the crook of my neck, and I can feel the tears streaming off of her face. In a few minutes, her sobbing subsides, and she looks up at me and directly into my eyes. I've never had anyone stare so intensely into my soul. I look into her eyes as well. I am unable to look away. She slowly moves her mouth to mine until our lips touch. There isn't even a faint hint of the sickness she experienced a few moments ago. Her eyes finally close. I can see a single tear stream down her cheek right before I close my eyes and receive the most passionate kiss I have ever known.
Her mouth moves back to my neck and up to my ear. I can hear her passion in every breath. She kisses me lightly all along the underside of my chin, making her way to my chest. My desire is reaching heights it has never neared. She brushes against my broken arm, but it feels far away. For the first time in life, I am running a real risk of climax before I ever take off a single piece of clothing. She's kissing me wildly now, all over my body. Her hands wander and are discovering new things by the second. I want to reciprocate, but I am unable to do so. I am her prisoner and cannot do anything until she stops her pleasure-filled exploration of my body.
 
4

A loud clamor brings me out of my passion and back to the troubled world we now inhabit. Inexplicably, chunks of ice are falling from the sky. This doesn't match any model that I have ever been made aware of. For not the first time it seems the scientific community has been wrong.
"We have to go now, Mary. We may not have as much time as we had hoped," I say, jumping back into my seat.
Mary does the same and pushes the throttle to max. The beast starts slowly and so far has reached a maximum of seventeen miles per hour, but we are underway.
"I wish I could google and see how far it is to the ocean," I offer to break the silence.
Once again Mary surprises me, "It's about eight to ten hours on I70 to I15. It's about the same from where we get on I15 to San Diego. I have, or had anyway, friends out there, and I've made the drive a few times," she says absently.
I quickly do the math in my head.
"So at fifteen miles per hour, driving twenty-four hours a day, it'll take us about three and a half days," I say.
"Do you think we have that much time?" she asks.
"No, I don't," I reply, honestly.
She nods, understanding.
 
Chapter 10: Logan
1

"Damn you, Logan! What the fuck were you thinking?" Sadie rages at me.
I have never seen her this furious. I don't think I've ever seen her really mad, but she is absolutely livid. I start to speak, and she shuts me up with a hand to my mouth.
"Did you once consider me? Did you think about how I would feel entombed all alone down here? Did you contemplate how I would feel after the world crumbled, and you, the love of my life dies going after a fucking bag? Did you think of anything, you big stupid, beautiful man?" she screams, crying the last as she wraps me in a forceful hug.
I feel like absolute shit, and rightfully so. I can try to tell myself that I was doing what's best for Sadie, and maybe on some level I was, but putting myself in a position to leave her alone is not going to help anyone.
"I'm sorry, Sadie, I was wrong. I won't leave your side again unless you think it's a good idea," I offer.
"Then you'll never leave," she replies with a faint smile.
"Well, I went after two more bags and lost the three we already had. The cave as well, I'm such an ass sometimes," I mutter.
"We didn't lose anything, Logan. The pool of water in the other cave began freezing not long after you left. I started freaking out and tried to break it. It was no good, and I knew if it was freezing there that it had to be freezing further up in the tunnel. So I frantically started looking for a way out. Luckily for you, and me, I found one," she states with pride shining through in her smile.
"You are amazing Sadie. I could not possibly love you more," I say.
"Good, come on. Let's get back to our cave. I'm getting hungry and in need of a nap.
Sadie turns a small flashlight on, although the algae are so bright it's probably not necessary and lead us into an adjoining cave. She proceeds as if she's lived here her whole life. Like it's her home. And I guess that it is.
 
2

I can tell by the state of our camp or new home I should say that Sadie had been quite busy up until the ice began to freeze over. She has our bed made, and our supplies are neatly stacked against one cave wall. She has even constructed us a couple of makeshift chairs out of some rocks she found. They don't look very comfortable, though.
The algae are neon blue. It's a little harsh at first, but I'm quickly growing used to it. I keep kicking myself for not reading up on it more. I know that some algae produce oxygen as a byproduct, but I also thought that they needed to have sunlight to survive. There is obviously no sunlight down here. I should have asked many more questions. How did the oxygen get into this cavern? That would probably be useful information. Can we eat any of these plants? That too would have been helpful.
I have little doubt that coming here was a good idea. Everything is going wrong on the surface. I wish we could have received an honest answer from the government before everything went silent. At least we would know. I guess in the end, it doesn't really matter. Sadie and I have some time anyway. This cave system is massive, so it should hold a decent amount of oxygen. One thing I do know is that on top of this rock I'm sitting under is more water, so there are no worries about it being airtight. The last radio broadcast I was able to catch was of some scientist saying that when the temperature drops to a certain point, sadly don't remember what that was, that all bets were off as far as current scientific understanding goes. That prospect makes being sealed in down here, not that bad.
As I look over at Sadie, curled up in our covers and resting peacefully, I can't help, but be optimistic about tomorrow. I don't know what it's going to take to survive down here, but I have a lot of ideas, and I intend to get started on some of them as soon as I get a little rest.
 
Chapter 11: Dr. John Harvey
1

"Mary. Mary, wake up," I say as I reach over and gently shake her.
She rouses slowly, and a smile touches the corners of my lips.
"What's happening John?" she asks, apparently still sleeping.
"We just passed through Cove Fort, and we are now on I15 headed to San Diego," I say as casually as I can.
Her eyelids fly open comically like a cartoon character from the early nineteen fifties. I can't help but laugh. She clearly knows why I'm laughing and shoots me a warning look. A very playful warning look.
"So we're halfway there, huh. What's the temperature down to?" Mary inquires.
"We are currently at negative one fifteen," I reply.
"My goodness, I can't imagine what that feels like, and I don't want to. I think I should use the time we have to read up on the MCU. Where did you put the crate of manuals?" she asks.
As soon as the question is out of her mouth, I can feel anxiety wash over me. I believe I am having my first ever panic attack. I foolishly slam my broken arm on the dash.
"Fuck! Fuck!" I scream. The first expletive is for the arm; the second one is for the books.
"I left the damned manuals beside the track. When I broke my cursed arm, I forgot all about them," I say brooding.
"Shit," she says plainly not used to using the word.
"It's okay, John. It can't be helped now. We will figure it out. How complicated can it be?" she asks.
I don't tell her how ridiculous this comment is, but apparently, my eyes betray me.
"Okay, so it is probably really danged complicated, but we'll still figure it out. At least it should be in English, well mostly in English anyway," she says, trailing off.
Yes, it should at least be partially in English I think as my eyes widen on the obstruction up ahead. I let the MCU roll to a stop. Snow flurries are dancing around the wreckage. I don't like the look of this. We can't get around it. It looks like two semis have collided with a small passenger van between them. I don't trust driving this thing on the grass shoulder unless I absolutely have to.
"We passed an exit less than a mile back. Do you know how to get this thing in reverse?" I ask Mary while I look around the console. 
She moves to the middle seat and leans over. Her arm rests against my leg as she pushes a rather large button on the left side of the panel. Why is this arousing? I steal a glance down her shirt before she pulls her arm back. My God, she is not wearing a bra. I'm starting to behave like a teenager instead of a man charging headlong into forty. She turns toward me as she's pulling back. A knowing look in her eyes, a smile on her lips.
"There you go, Dr. Harvey," she says wearing that seductive little smile I am growing quite fond of.
I used the screen to slowly, very slowly, back us up to the previous exit. Turns out it was much farther than I had thought. Nearly an hour later, I stop and read the sign for the exit ramp. The exit is for Highway 357. It will take us into downtown Beaver, Utah.
 
2

The highway is speckled with farms until we start to enter the city proper. My nerves are on edge. The beast is too broad for the two-lane road. I dodge, as best as I can, mailboxes and trash cans, but I don't do a superb job of it. Seeing all of these houses is actually bringing this tragedy home to me. For some reason, it is much easier for me to accept the abstract death of several million people rather than the individual lives in each one of these houses. The devastation I've wrought, and yet I stand to be one of the only few that might get to survive this disaster, at least for a time. It is tragically, unfair, and unjust.
Tears stream down my cheeks at the futility of it all. Each life, tiny on the grand scale, but of great importance to those around it, snuffed out like a spent candle. All because of a group of people that these poor souls likely didn't even know of decided to do an experiment. If there is a netherworld, my colleagues and I will own a disproportionate portion of it.
A bright light, brighter than anything I've seen is days is up ahead. A small house is on fire. As I drive by, I, notice a woman and a small child standing in front of it shivering and crying. They are screaming something at the house. I drive a little past the house and stop the beast.
"What is that bright light?" Mary asks. She was dozing again.
"It's a house fire. There is a small family out front. I have to see if I can help them. Watch for me. If anything funny happens, just drive on," I say and exit through the hatch.
 
3

The cold hits me like a ton of bricks. I'm not wearing a jacket of any sort, not that it would do much good. These poor people, my God. I run as best I can to the woman. I start to ask her if she's okay, but that would be a useless question. I can tell by the look in her eyes that she is not okay. Her eyes are perceptive, and they know the end is near. She is cradling a small girl, desperately trying to keep her warm. She is failing at this task. There is no warmth to be had out here, even this close to the inferno.
"Is there anyone else inside?" I ask the woman, apparently in shock.
"My husband," she replies faintly.
I run towards the entrance and scale the steps.
"Don't. He's gone, no way he could still be alive," she says despondently.
"Get in our vehicle. It's warm in there. We have to get this child out of the cold," I say.
She provides no resistance and seems to only vaguely understand what I'm saying. I help her under the vehicle, and Mary is standing there to help her into the hatch. As I turn to get one final glance of the conflagration, I see a man standing at the edge of the lawn. I have an interior skirmish going on. I want to help this person. I want to help as many individuals as I can, but the beast can only hold three people. Fully setup it is only rated for fifty. I make to turn, to get back into the vehicle without a word, but my feet won't move. My heart won't let them. Foolishly, I begin to speak.
"We think we have a way to endure this. Maybe not forever, but for quite a while. We will have room for about fifty people. If you want to gather whoever you can from this small town, we will be trying to get to the mouth of the San Diego River. A place called Robb Field. We will take on as many as we can. My advice, if you choose to follow us, is to get there in the next twenty-four hours. Sooner if you're able. Time is short, just how short I have no idea," I stutter to the man as loudly as I can.
The man nods in understanding, stands still for a moment longer, and then is gone into the darkness. I hastily make my way back into the beast. I could have been out there no more than a couple of minutes, and I'm already having trouble speaking. My extremities feel ice-covered and alien.