2

I find myself in another utility closet. The utter darkness of this place is demoralizing. I have no idea where in the compound I am.
"Are you okay?" I hear Mary ask from above.
"Yes, I have to find a light. Wait here," I reply absently.
Where else would she wait? She's still up in the shaft. Unless she wants to make a spectacular entrance like I did. I have to look at a nearby office. Every office should have an emergency kit inside. The keyword is should.
I grope for the doorknob and finally seize on it. I open the door into more darkness and rub my shoulder against the wall as I make my way down the hall. After only a few feet, I touch the frame of another door. I enter the room and begin working my way down the wall until I find what I am looking for. I rub my hand around until I locate the latch at the top of the box and open it more carefully this time. I fumble for the tube shape of the flashlight and grasp it. With apprehension, I push the button, and I am rewarded with an eye-shocking flood of light. I now have not only a flashlight, but it appears I have one with fresh batteries to boot. My morale rises immeasurably. 
I make my way back to the utility closet and help Mary down. She forces me to sit down right outside the door so that she can re-bandage my damaged hand. I really lucked out finding her. It's nice that she's taking care of my hand, but I can't imagine what my mental state would be right now if I were all alone. I may never have liked people before, and I'm not sure how I feel now, but this is definitely a different game. I don't relish the idea of being alone at the end.
Mary finishes her handy work and then looks up at me. It looks as though she's going to say something but doesn't. I don't force the issue.
"We need to see if there are any supplies in that closet and look for a floor map. Also, we should search in these nearby offices to get another flashlight or two. I don't relish the thought of total darkness again," I state trying to sound more confident than I feel.
"I agree; we also need to gather some medical supplies from the same kits. You will clearly need more in the hours to come, and who knows what we will come across. It also seems to me that it is getting colder and harder to breathe; the longer the power stays off. We should take that into consideration and try to plan for it," Mary says, blowing my mind.
Where did this confident woman come from? She is apparently no longer in shock and is in control of herself. Thank God, because I am not. I am teetering on the edge of an abyss.
"Good plan, Mary, let's see what we can find," I reply, and we get to work.

 
3

It doesn't take long for us to locate all of the useful items in the immediate area. For our troubles, we discover a small tool bag, three new flashlights, a few medical supplies, and some trash bags. Two of the lamps are fully charged. One is at half power according to the led readout on the side.
I find myself staring at Mary as she is packing our small items into the tool bag. I don't mean to, and I don't want to creep her out, but something about this situation is hastening my need to connect with another human being. Not sexually, not really anyway. If I die right now, and I'm sure I will soon, no one, if there were anyone alive, would care. No one. This thought makes me morose. What have I done with my life? I've created an empty void. A meaningless existence, worse I've destroyed it for everyone else. And besides, she is gorgeous and becoming more so by the minute. I see her mouth moving, and shame brings me out of my inner monolog.
"What did you say?" I ask meekly.
"Is everything okay?" she asks, looking concerned.
"Yes fine, thanks, just lost in thought," I lie.
"Okay good, I think there is a map board over there, at least it looks like one," she says, shining the light on the object.
"Great, let's check it out," I say and start moving at once.
It is a map board. This one is a master board that takes up most of this wall. I begin eagerly scanning from the 'you are here star' in every direction attempting to locate the nearest cafeteria. To my horror, we are now on level two, and the closest cafeteria is the one that we initially set out for. It is now on the other side of the compound.
"Fuck!" I scream before I can help myself.
"What John?" Mary asks quizzically.
"The cafeteria is all the way on the other side of the compound," I confide.
"Oh, I see. In that case, and in light of our decreasing temperature and oxygen, maybe we should make our way here," Mary opines.
I move over to where she is and shine my light on her finger. It is hovering just below a label that reads Mar's Mission Research and Development Annex.
"Mars?" I ask.
"No, not today, but if they have things there that can sustain life on Mars, then reason would suggest that it would sustain it here as well. I have no idea, but it's worth a shot. Besides, I don't think sustenance is going to be our first real problem," she says.
Damn, she's right of course. We'll freeze to death or suffocate long before we succumb to starvation. Man, I'm really not batting too good right now.
"Of course, Mary, you are correct. This is our best shot. Let's see how we get there," I say, and we both get quiet while we plot a course.
 
Chapter 5: Logan
1

Sadie leans over and kisses me gently, calming my racing heart a great deal. I should not have expected our trip to have completed without issue. Although, in fairness, I did not expect the crazies to be out this soon. Good grief, what is wrong with people? I know deep down that it's only going to get worse with time. What little bit is left of human nature will soon be overrun by more primal tendencies. I still don't have a clue as to what's going on, but the outlook is getting worse, not better.
"We are going to make it Logan," Sadie states confidently.
"It's only a few more miles to the cave, we can walk if we have to. It might actually be safer," she continues.
"That's true, although I was really hoping to get us underground as quickly as possible. And if we walk, we won't be able to carry nearly as many supplies," I replied reluctantly.
I try the engine one more time. It doesn't start, but it sounds really close to doing so. I try once more, and it roars to life. I smile uncontrollably and give her a kiss this time, much more passionately.
I drive us back to the road and instead of continuing the way we were going. I take us back the way we came. I know a few back roads that we can use to get to the cave instead. I'm sure these gently used roads will be much safer considering. 
 
2


While we drive, I try to work out in my head what is happening. The news networks, before they went off the air, were saying that an object had moved between the Earth and the sun blocking it out. They stated that the government had confidence that the entity would continue on its course in a matter of days and wasn't a real threat to the planet. The important thing, according to them, was to stay indoors and ride it out. They said that it would get frigid before the object moved and sunlight could return. 
This explanation just doesn't make a hell of a lot of sense to me. For one, it just doesn't sound plausible that an object would hover in front of the sun, or that it could even get close enough to it without being burned up. Second, and more importantly, I was outside when the sun went out. It didn't gradually go out. It was gone in a flash. As if it had merely disappeared.
I am wrestling with these thoughts, and I don't even hear the shot ring out. My first notification of it is when my front right tire bursts and the Jeep shakes violently. I try to keep speed, but it's no good. I will have to stop.
I start to yell at Sadie to get down, but she already is. She is also reaching beside her seat. To my surprise, she pulls out my survival knife. I had intended to get it out when we stopped before, but I got lost in the moment and forgot. Not that it will do us much good against a rifle, but it's something. I go to reach for it, and she shakes her head.
"I will keep this for now. The Jeep is your weapon," she says willfully.
I nod in understanding. I slow and ultimately stop the vehicle. We both scoot down in our seat where I can barely see above the window. I keep looking up into each mirror, well the ones that are left anyway, scanning for the assailant. So far, he hasn't produced himself. I say he, although I guess that sexist. It could just as quickly be a female attacker. Insanity knows no sex, color, or creed. I smile at my own cynicism when I first notice a shadowed figure moving down the tree line. I move to shift to reverse to be ready but stop at the last moment. That will cause my backup lights to come on, and that will not do.
He has the weapon raised. It is a man after all or at least looks like one in the faint light of my tail lights. He appears as if he's just waiting for a reason to fire. I'm surprised he hasn't already. Maybe he thinks he's already shot the driver and doesn't want to take the chance of ruining whatever loot he may recover. Well, he's in for a rude surprise if I get my way. I will flat run over his ass if I get the chance. I want to check on Sadie, but I cannot. I can't take my eyes off of this guy. Not now.
He inches ever closer to the vehicle. He's smart, but he's now within a foot or so of the car. I wait for him to move from the edge of the road to the back of the vehicle. At that very instance, I shift into reverse and floor the Jeep. It instantly makes contact with him, and I can feel his body being chewed up beneath it. I hear Sadie scream, hell I'm crying.
I let the Jeep roll back a few feet, and I can see the poor bastards mangled body lying in the road. Without a second thought, I slam it in first and hit him again. I back up and do it again. I'm going to drive over him once more when Sadie stays my hand.
"Enough Logan, I think he's gone," she says in a voice tinged with sorrow.
I nod my head in acknowledgment shaking sweat and tears free. It is cold as hell, even inside the Jeep with the heater on high, but I have found a way to sweat. It must be pure adrenaline.
I look behind me to make sure that no one else is coming up to the vehicle and see no one. I slowly get out and make my way to the guy. He is dead, sure enough, and his rifle is broken in two. Oh well, not like there would be anything to hunt if this keeps up anyway. I go get back in the Jeep and drive back to where he came from. Sure enough, I find a vehicle, a blue Ford F150. 
The keys are in it, and it has a half a tank of gas. More than enough to get us where we're going. We quickly unload the Jeep and put everything inside the truck. My mind tries to reason that I need to hide the Jeep or this guy's body. Words like murder and manslaughter attempt to rise in my mind. I just shake them off, words like that have no meaning anymore. Without saying a word to each other Sadie and I  get in the truck and head back out to the road.
 
Chapter 6: Dr. John Harvey
1

We ascertain that the R&D lab is one floor up, at ground level. I can feel my anxiety go through the roof. The thought of going to the main level fills me with an insidious dread. It is already cold as hell in here. I can't imagine how bad it will be up there, and it's only going to get worse. Mary is right, though; the lab is our best shot. How amazing would it be if they had something up there that we could use to survive, at least for a time? 
"Let's get moving," I stutter.
It is becoming harder to function by the minute. Fortunately, it isn't much farther to the lab. We should know if it's our salvation or our doom in just a few moments. As we walk, I decide to find out a little more about Mary.
"So what kind of doctor are you?" I ask.
"Biologist. I have a ton of education, but little practical experience. This was my first position," Mary offers.
A biologist could be very useful. I have absolutely zero fantasies that I can undo what has been done, but I could create, given enough time, a comfortable place below ground. I have equipment in this very building that could produce energy, hell I have a mini cloud operating out of my research department. From that power, we could generate heat and water. With a biologist, we could possibly grow some good as well, or maybe she could create a more resilient food source. I realize we've stopped, and Mary is staring at me.
"What?" I ask.
"You were babbling, and then you stopped," she replies.
"Sorry, I just thought that with our separate disciplines that we might be able to eke out an existence of some sort," I say.
A smile washes over her face. Somehow this makes her more beautiful. She's not a beauty queen, not in the traditional sense anyway. She could probably even be called ugly if you are an asshole, but there is just something about her. Her long brown hair. Her firm, petite body. And that smile. Embarrassed, I notice that her smile has widened and it's as if she can read my thoughts.
"John?" she asks, clearly enjoying this.
"Yes," I reply.
"You are fascinatingly looking at me," she provides.
"I'm sorry, Mary. I did not mean too. I will not do that anymore," I reply wholly mortified.
"Please don't stop John. I like the way it makes me feel," she states with a coy smile.
I smile back, unable to say anything with a trace of intelligence. Without another word, we continue to walk through the corridor.
 
2

Before long, we find a stairwell and begin ascending the steps. It is indeed surprising that I can feel a marked difference in temperature with each step that I take. The small window in the door at the top of the stairs is frosted over. With some reservation, I grasp the knob and open the door.
I am immediately rewarded with a large sign indicating that we have arrived right outside of the laboratory. Sudden fear grips me. I have almost unlimited access to my part of this facility, but I probably couldn't even gain access to a bathroom over here. Without realizing that I am moving, I start running toward the lab entrance. I have to see the locked door. I must set this right in my head if I can accept it and move on.
I find myself looking at two large doors with solid glass insets. I can see inside the lab. There is a ton of cool-looking stuff in there. I can also see a significant access panel to the right of the door. Immense and complete wretchedness overtakes me. We have made it to the gates of Eden only to be shut out right outside. What a cruel trick. I know without even trying that there is no way to break that glass. An RPG wouldn't harm it.
As I stand here bathing in my own self-pity, I notice Mary's small hand reach for the door, and she gently pushes it open.
3

Mary enters the room, and I can see amazement wash across her face. We each have our own discipline, and the stuff in this place is not it, but one cannot help having an admiration for it. Countless children have dreamed endless hours of space and the great beyond, and this is the result of all those dreams. There are space suits, rovers, a communication satellite, and many other things. The issue and the reasons for my resurgence in anxiety are that they are all staged behind a protective Plexiglas, which makes me think that they are only displays and not working prototypes.
"Okay," Mary begins. "I believe that we should try to do a quick inventory, and look for some manuals or something that might help us learn to operate anything we find useful," Mary says growing more confident by the minute. She is quickly becoming quite the survivor.
"Good plan, Mary," I say, and get to work.
As I make my way to the back of the room, I come upon a computer terminal that has a ticker tape scrolling across it. The screen is labeled "Top Secret." Generally, I would avert my eyes as I have the clearance, but not the need to know. However, in this case, I feel I have the need to know. Besides, those rules are gone. Before long, everything else will be too. My mouth opens in amazement as I begin to read the scrolling messages.
•	Mass Extinction Event – 99.93% of all surface life expected to be wiped out in the next seven to ten days.
•	The moon has left orbit and is moving steadily away. Radio contact with moon colony lost.
•	Naval ships were frozen at sea. Vessels crushed in the ice. Crews believed dead.
•	Submarines either frozen or trapped beneath the ice. Radio contact lost with most of the fleet.
•	President is in a secure location and in communication with the Pentagon.
•	Pentagon fully staffed and attempting to gain control of the situation.
"My God," I gasp.
Mary makes her way over to me, and I can see the color drain from her face as she reads the messages. It's not like we didn't know, or couldn't have predicted that this would happen, but still. Billions of people dead. It's unimaginable. How many billions have you killed Dr. Harvey?
I find a nearby chair and collapse on it.
Mary rushes over. She is such a great person. I wonder if she knows what kind of monster she's been paired with. I say pair because, if there is anyone else in this facility, we haven't encountered them yet. It is a large facility, though so who knows.
"I know it's bad news, John, terrible in fact, but we can't just give up, and we should hope that those people will do the same," Mary confides.
"It's not that Mary," I begin and realize that I'm about to tell her everything. I can't continue lying to the only other person that I am positive is still alive. It's more than that, though, she deserves to know. She will probably not want to stay near me once she does, or if she does, it will be begrudgingly, but I have to come clean. I don't want to die a fraud. I walk into a small room, it looks like a conference room. I call Mary over, and after she enters, I close the door and motion to an empty chair. It is warmer in here than the surrounding room. A faint warm air is emanating from a panel near the floor. 
"Please sit Mary. I have a few things I want to explain to you," I say patting the chair next to me. She sits obediently, and I relay my tale.
I spare not a single detail, and there are a few times where I'm sure that she'll interrupt me, but she doesn't. When I finish, she is looking at me, intently. I'm quite sure she is deciding my fate at this very moment. Or she could be trying to process how she has been sitting next to the world's most efficient mass murderer. After a very long pause, four or five minutes at least she begins to speak.
"You do share the blame in this John," she begins.
Boy, do I ever. Now I am become death. Why didn't I pay heed to this quote? Why does humanity necessitate that we repeat mistakes until we march ourselves into oblivion? Well, I believe I have ended that cycle. It does not appear that mankind will have an opportunity to repeat this one. With effort, I drag myself out of a soup of self-loathing when she continues.
"But the blame is not yours alone. Countless people worked years on these projects John, and not just any people, the world's most intelligent. You may have begun this John, but you at most only hastened something that someone else would have stumbled on eventually anyway. I won't misguide you. There was a moment, although brief when I considered trying to do bitter harm to you for this event, which has most likely wiped out everyone I have ever known. In the end, I am a scientist at heart, so I know how easy it is to think you are correct when you are on the verge of a cataclysmic failure. I am also familiar with your work. You have done a great deal over the years to ease the pain and suffering of the entire world. I'm quite sure your technology narrowly averted another war in the middle east. This event, of course, makes that irrelevant, but it sheds light on your nature. You are a decent person, who just helped humanity make a dreadful mistake," she finishes squeezing my shoulder a touch.
  She is wrong, of course, it is my fault, but I am grateful nonetheless.
"Thank you, Mary. I carry a heavy burden for what I have done, and I'm sure I will take it with me henceforward, however, long that is, but you have done me a great service with your kindness and compassion. I will not forget it," I say and gently touch her wrist.
"Let's see what we can find of use in here," I say after a few moments.