Chapter 1: Dr. John Harvey
1

 Pitch black. I thought I knew what darkness was. I had no idea. I went to the surface area, away from the compound, and there is absolutely no light to be found, save for what is emanating from this very facility. If someone had asked me before this happened if I were happy, I would have told them no, a resounding no. I had no reason to be unhappy and many things to be appreciative for, but I was not. Not that it matters much now, those things have all been swept away, like so much sand in the desert wind. Years of education followed by years of scientific study swept away in the blink of an eye. Of all my accomplishments, I have, but one that I would be remembered by was there anyone left to evoke me. I have destroyed the past, present, and future of all mankind.
As I'm sure most grand mistakes are, mine was born out of a need to leave the world better than I found it. My intent, if you can call the blinded pursuit of something intent, was to create an inexhaustible energy source for the betterment of the entire world. In a word, I succeeded, quite well too. It would be uncouth for me to say that I invented technology. No, I didn't create anything, not actually. I merely learned to understand a few things, and out of those few things, some machinery was born. Had I left things where they were five years ago, I would have succeeded in my endeavor. The world's energy crisis would have been erased, and I would have lived up to the legendary figure that most seemed to think that I was. 
I could not leave well enough alone, though. I could not go silently into retirement. As laughable as that is at thirty-nine. I entered into a dangerous game of one-upmanship with myself, and guess what? I won. I can safely say that I outdid myself. When I look at the readings for the surface outside this bunker, it is a balmy negative fifteen degrees and falling. The sun has only been gone for two days. Within a week, it will be one hundred below. Not long after that, as the temperature continues to plummet, the oceans will freeze. And so on, and so on.
Why do I bother to go on when I know that there will be no virtuous end to this? Because I fucked up. Plain and straightforward. I thought I knew more than I did, and I didn't. When I initially, five years ago, solved the world's energy problem I discovered, oh hell, who am I kidding, I stumbled upon a way to create little clouds of energy. This is not precisely correct. In fact, they favored black holes more than clouds, but for the sake of description, let's press on. In essence, these clouds, when appropriately contained, provided a nearly inexhaustible energy source. All was well and good. Fossil fuels were no longer being used for electricity production, and there were only a few vehicles left on the road that were not electric.
My great folly was trying to export this technology to outer space to provide power for whatever extraterrestrial endeavors humanity could think up. With this in mind, a mission was planned and executed. A spacecraft, using conventional rocket fuel was launched. Once in open space, and near the sun, the cloud engine on the spaceship was to initialize, and it was expected to be able to explore the entirety of the universe. What we didn't know at the time what I didn't realize is that the clouds worked perfectly on earth because they were contained underground in perfect conditions. As soon as the mission engineers began initializing the cloud engine, a fantastic explosion occurred, and the world went dark. 
My colleagues have been searching for the last two days trying to find out what happened. I already know, but I don't have the heart, or the courage, to tell them. The sun is gone. A cloud was created, without containment, it grew exponentially, within moments it gained critical mass to transform into a black hole. Past this point is where my understanding gets fuzzy. Logic would suggest that a black hole big enough to suck in the sun would have taken the planets as well. I'm not sure about Mercury, but I know that Venus wasn't taken, nor anything farther out in space. The earth, minus its star, has now left orbit and is floating hopelessly alone in space. If they were not so preoccupied, my colleagues would see that we are moving quickly away from our neighbors. I have already observed that Mars is much, much farther away, as are the other planets. In fact, the earth isn't just moving away, it is racing away. Before long, we will be floating dark and alone in the endless expanse of space.
So what should I do now? I could probably survive in this bunker for several years, but to what end? It hardly seems worth the effort at this point. Have I loved anyone? Not really, I have enjoyed an idea or two, but people, not so much. I always considered myself a member of society who is slightly outside. I played well with others, but usually only out of necessity. I have always been an avid reader and have loved entering imaginary worlds drenched in heroes and heroines who rush in to save the day in the nick of time. Well, there will be none of that here. This goose is cooked. The only thing tomorrow will bring is an empty stomach, but not for me, and constant sorrow. And of course death, there will be no escaping that.
I have everything I need to leave the world or to stay in it. I can smell the pile of dishes in the sink over there, and it is making me nauseous. Why did I refuse the maid service? My pistol, no idea what kind it is, is sitting on the table in front of me in all its blackened glory. In a moment I could end everything, for me at least. That would almost be just. The man who destroyed the world exiting before he even got to see the last flame of humanity squashed out. I'm sure that the gods, whatever they might be, would find a special place in hell for a man such as that. I have picked it up numerous times. Each time, so far, I have sat it back down. I don't want to die, even now, as I'm sure the people who have already frozen to death topside did not want to die. I have the means to survive, at least for a time. 
In an almost comic fashion, I slam the pistol down for the last time on the table. I will not end my own suffering. I do not deserve that. I will see this child born of my ambition through to the end. No good will come of it. My God, how could it? Everything, everything, is lost. The earth is spiraling through space. Our world, as we have always known it is no more. Thank you, Dr. Harvey.
A loud, almost obnoxious knocking wakes me from the Congress I have convened inside my head.
"Dr. Harvey, General Johnson has requested your presence in conference room B. Can I tell him that you're on your way, sir?" an unknown voice asks through the squawk box.
"Yes, of course, and can you please have the maid service come to my room? The smell in here is atrocious," comes my instant reply.
"I will see what I can do, sir. The staff is insufficient right now," the unknown voice answers and says no more.
Without further thought, I dress and make my way to sublevel four and questions that I cannot candidly answer.
 
2

The general looks, as can be anticipated, like he hasn't slept in ages. I'm sure he will have inquiries for me. Oh hell, who am I kidding, he will try to pin this on me, and duly so, for it is my responsibility. What will it matter anyway, it's not like they're going to lock anyone in jail anytime soon? What prison, on the surface? A bullet would be slower. No, the more significant punishment would be to let me live. I am roused from my stupor when he begins to speak.
"Dr. Harvey, as you know we have a situation on our hands," General Johnson provides.
No shit, I think, a situation indeed. The general's wide-set ice blue eyes are haunted. They don't match his concrete gray hair and dainty nose at all.
"Our intelligence indicates, and I can't believe I'm saying this, it shows that the sun is no longer with us doctor," he continues.
"I am aware General, although I have trouble believing it," I say feigning astonishment.
I'm not sure why I'm lying at this point, but it feels necessary for my continued survival, so I do so.
"I don't believe it myself, but I only know what the intelligence services tell me. The surface temperature has dropped considerably and shows no sign of abating. We have a real situation here, doctor. I was wondering if you have any input or theories as to the causation or possible remedies," the general finished absently.
"I have none, unfortunately," I reply truthfully.
Causation yes, but what good would causation do other than getting me killed? I don't expect to come out of this unscathed, or at all, but I will not purposefully be the sacrificial lamb. 
"My research shows virtually the same things as your intelligence has disclosed. The sun is no more, and we are no longer in orbit of any kind," I provide.
"I thought you would agree with me, doctor. I am trying to be professional about this situation, but pulling at the back of my mind is the status of my family which I have not heard from since this event began," the general says seeming very remorseful.
Your family is most likely dead, I think, but do not say.
"I'm sure they are alive general," I say attempting to comfort him.
In truth, they probably are. Most people, this far away that are dead would have been homeless. Electrical grids in many cities were overloaded almost immediately, but those heating with propane or natural gas should be dark, but nice and toasty. Well, toasty maybe isn't correct. Not frozen at least.
"General, I think that the situation is dire, to be honest. At this date, I see no road to recovery. All existence, sentient or otherwise, has always been dependent on the infinite power constantly radiating from the sun. In its absence, I can't imagine any species, even an intelligent one, having a long-term survival," I state with measured regret.
"So we should all just say fuck it, and call it a day doctor? " Johnson asks, visibly perturbed.
"Perhaps," I say, sheepishly.
"That's the dumbest thing I have ever heard Doctor, and I have made a career out of listening to stupid ass people. I may not have your intellect. In fact, I'm quite sure that I don't, but I would never dream in a million years that you could give up on everything so quickly. For God's sake, what else is there?" he replies.
"Nothing, and more nothing," I respond, feeling the full depth of my grief.
At this moment, the real gravity of the situation sets in on me. There is no coming back from this. I will end. Everything I know will end. Humanity will end. All thanks to the heroic escapades of one renowned Harvard physicist. Well, fuck me, and the horse I rode in on.
"We can fix this," I state without a clue as to why I say it.
Perhaps to give the old man hope, for there is none to be had, not really.
"Our problems stem from the sun, our sun, being absent. Or to be more precise, gone from existence. The way to correct this is to put the sun back in its place," I say with trepidation.
"So you think we can, as you say, put the sun back doctor?" he asks.
"No, not at all," I reply,
General Johnson and the rest of his council stare at me intently. Inwardly I cringe. The room has taken on a smell of sewer gas.
I can feel the intensity in the chamber. Everyone here is looking at me to provide the answer. To correct a wrong that cannot be altered.
Before I can stop it, my mouth betrays me, "I think we can replace it, General."
"You don't say," he says to me incredulously.
"Not as it sounds general, I only mean that we have the technology to create a similar entity. With a similar purpose, but vastly different makeup," I reply.
This was bullshit, of course, but what else was I to say. These people wanted answers, and I had none.
"General, I believe it will get much, worse before it gets better. The oceans will freeze to a certain depth. The temperatures will eventually plummet to around negative four hundred degrees. And lastly, and most devastating of all, the atmosphere will freeze and fall to the earth. This will cause untold death and devastation. If there is anything left at that point to observe it," I state putting all of my cards on the table.
"That doesn't sound like much of a plan doctor," he responds, visibly perplexed.
It's not a plan you fool, I think, but do not say. I quivered with indignation but managed to stay the ferocity of my tongue. I was not in a position to lecture anyone.
"It's not a plan General, I just want to get that out of the way upfront. What we can do, at least initially, is go underground. Or in our case, stay underground. We have the technology to survive below the surface for the foreseen future. As to a remedy for this problem, at present, I do not have one," I say weighted with emotion.
"Well, the timing of this event could not have been worse, not that there would ever have been a good time. We have several projects running concurrently out of this facility. Most of which, I'm sure you have no knowledge of. DNA, exploration, cloning, well you get the idea. The point is that we have the best and brightest working right here in this facility on any given day, just not this day. With the holiday season in full swing, most everyone has gone home. I issued a personnel recall not long after this event and do you know how many people have reported back in Doctor?" Johnson asks.
"I do not know General," I reply.
General Johnson begins a response when the room we're in rumbles and the electricity shuts off.
"That is bizarre," Johnson begins, "The battery backup should," but he is unable to finish. A steel beam, at least that's what it sounds like bursts through the ceiling and silences him at once. The force throw's me and my chair against the wall. My head connects violently with it. An acrid metallic burning smell replaces the sewer gas and fills the room.
Screams erupt all around me. I am, for the moment, thunderstruck. I can hear the mayhem all around me, but I am unable to move from my chair. Fear claws through me. A cloud of debris from the ceiling pelt my face. I am, in actuality, affixed to my chair. I realize, probably better than most in this room, that we are trapped far underground, and that the lights will most likely not be coming back on. After a few moments, I attempt to quell the riot.
"Colleagues," I say without much enthusiasm. "Colleagues!" I try again with much more force.
The room is silenced at once.
"Hysteria will do none of us any good. Who do we have conscious in here?" I ask.
"Mary Rodgers," comes one reply.
"Jason Reinhold," comes another.
So two out of six people, not counting me.
The others are either unconscious or more likely according to the sound of the beam, dead.
"Okay Mary and Jason, we need to keep our heads here," I say trying to calm them as well as myself.
I can hear someone stand across from me. A brilliant explosion of light paints the room. Screams once again fill the chamber. An overcooked pork smell wafts my way, and I wretch between my legs.
"Fuck," I manage.
"What the hell was that?" I ask.
"I think that was Jerry," Mary replies meekly.
Dear God, I think, how the hell do we proceed from here? I can kid myself and toy with the idea that the other people in this room are only sleeping. I could do that, but I won't. They are dead, dead as shit. For all, I know Mary, and I could be the only two sad souls left on this rock, or under it, I should say.
"Okay, Mary, sit very still. There is an emergency flashlight in the panel behind me. I'm going to try to find it," I say to her trying to keep her calm.
I grope blindly behind me for the emergency container. After a few minutes, I find it and opening it too hastily, I spill half its contents onto the floor. Several excruciatingly long moments later, I locate the round tube, awash in my vomit, that I have been searching for. Inside my head, I say a silent prayer. I'm not a religious person by nature, but this is pretty damn serious. If no one has replaced these batteries recently, Mary and I are entirely and irrevocably screwed. It's not like we're not already anyway, but still, I like a fighting chance. While these thoughts are racing through my mind, my index finger, betraying my procrastination, depresses the button and a cone of light illuminates the small room. Excitement runs through me at this minor victory.
My delight is speedily ripped away. I instantly see that my predictions were correct. Everyone in this room, save Mary and me, are dead. The General's body what's left of it anyway is scattered around and on top of that end of the table. I can feel my remaining lunch rising up in my throat. I have to get control of myself.
I don't know Mary, I've seen her around from time to time. I'm not sure what her purpose in this facility is, though. She's young, too young for me, and not hard on the eyes, so yeah I've noticed her. It'd be hard not to see those mahogany long-lashed eyes and her luscious red lips. Focus you fool, I scold myself inwardly.
I glance over and see poor Mary looking at me frantically. Staring at me to be her salvation, oh if she only knew what a hopeless coward she has been coupled with. 
Pull yourself together, man, now is not the time. 
The flashlight is weak. The batteries, although a godsend, are apparently in need of replacement. The emergency lights should be on. This thought races to the front of my mind. If the emergency lights are not on, the most basic of emergency systems, what else is off? Ventilation, heating? At this thought, a stark realization hits me that I should have seen all along. This bunker has ventilation, coming from the outside, not oxygen scrubbers. For a time, were they working, they would merely pour freezing oxygen into the bunker, but with the atmosphere going. Dear God, we can't stay in this shelter, and we can't leave. With these thoughts, my heart plummets to my feet, and my resolve breaks.
 
Chapter 2: Logan
1

"I almost have all of the gear stowed in the Jeep Sadie grab the rest of your stuff and let's get going," I shout from across the house. 
"Okay, Logan," Sadie replies faintly.
It sounds like she's making her way outside. That's good, we're ahead of schedule and the riots, chaos, and rapid temperature drop that is soon to follow. The sun hasn't come up in over thirty-six hours. Sadie and I are heading to one of our favorite dive points, Phantom Spring Cave. I'm not a scientist, but I do know that something catastrophic has happened, and the authorities are staying mum about it. 
A few years ago, while exploring the cave's inner passageways, we found an underground cave system only accessible via a deep dive. It was unnaturally warm, or naturally depending on your perspective. It also had access to freshwater. Last, and most importantly, no one else knows about it.
I spare one final glance at our living room, shining my flashlight all around. My baseball glove lying on the recliner, never to be worn again. An unopened UPS package, a useless printer cartridge. I steal a final glance at the pictures hanging on the wall, we are not taking them. There isn't any time for such niceties. If my apprehension is mislaid, then we can come back and collect these items later. I don't think I'm wrong. I have a deep suspicion that I will never be back here again.
I close the door behind me, judiciously locking it, and make my way to the Jeep. I throw the last bag into the back and jump inside. Sadie has it running and the heater on high. Man is it cold outside. Remain calm, that's what the authorities are saying. Remain calm and stay in your home. Like hell, I will. 
As I reach for the shifter to shift into first, my hand brushes Sadies. I look over at her. She looks as if she is in shock or very near it.
"I love you, Sadie. We are going to figure this out, baby. We have a plan," I say as I shift into first and pull out into the highway.
There is no one else on the road.