4

A short time later, our inventory is complete. We found half a dozen MIT Bio Suits. I had no idea that such an item existed, and these are just prototypes, but the white paper on it is absolutely phenomenal. These in and of themselves are a little salvation, but we found so much more. 
In a vehicle which looks like an ugly child born of a marriage between a semi and an RV, we found what has been named a Mobile Colonization Unit (MCU). We're still not entirely sure what it does, Mary is camped out in the conference room reading a manual now, but it could help us plan our survival.
Inside the MCU, we found a container that looked very similar to a safe, but it was much thinner. We are not sure if there is actually anything inside it, but if the inventory sheet on the outside is any guide, it is stocked with seeds of hundreds of different plants. 
I grab a manual on the MCU, and I am lost in thought when Mary breaks the silence.
"This thing has a miniature molten salt cooled reactor! That is the noise we have been hearing. The whooshing sound. I thought it was the wind outside, but this thing has to cool even when it's not on. It is powered by a miniaturized nuke!" she almost screams. The prospect alarms me, to be honest, but her excitement is infectious. I grin and nod my agreement.
"It also says that it can desalinate water or pump from a lake, but it cannot drill for it. That is a phase II requirement, and this is undoubtedly a Phase I prototype. This version can provide a habitat for up to fifty people. It has food stores for twelve months, and the seeds are for continued viability. The list just keeps going. It has repair kits. A terrain exploration unit, which just looks like a glorified ATV, and of course, it can scrub oxygen for us to breathe," we are saved John she screams jumping up and down. 
She wraps me in her arms and kisses me squarely on the mouth. I know this is only a result of finding this fantastic vehicle, but still. I can taste the exhaustion on her. I can feel her breasts against my chest. It is sensuous, and I can feel myself getting aroused despite my misgivings. I think she is right to be excited, considered the last few days this is a godsend, but we are in Colorado. We need a large body of water, either the ocean or a large lake. I have a feeling that once this thing is set up that it is not designed to be moved so, we either have to get to the Pacific Ocean or one of the great lakes. The sea seems more reasonable. Even if we can stay warm in the MCU, and I have no doubt we can. There is snow on the ground, and it will most likely never leave. Once we're out of Colorado, the roads, for the most part, should be snow-free, but getting out of Colorado will be a challenge.
"Let's figure out how to work this thing, Mary. I don't know about you, but I could do without this cold," I say.
She nods her head in agreement and opens the manual looking for instructions.
 
Chapter 7: Logan
1

Shattering all of my expectations, the remaining ride to the lake is uneventful. I feel relief that I haven't felt since this ordeal started as the F150's headlights shine on the familiar landscape of the cave. In preparation, I back the truck up to the edge of the water to make it easier to unload.
"You can wait in the car while I dump everything if you want. If this dashboard thermometer is correct, its negative twenty-five out there," I tell Sadie.
"No, we need to hurry," she says quickly, and of course, we do.
We hurriedly unload everything and dress in our diving suits. We find a fishing pole and tackle box in the truck bed. We'll take the pole with us, and I shove some of the tackle inside one of my waterproof bags. We dress using the vehicle's lights for illumination. I have seen Sadie naked so many times, but I am still mesmerized by her body. It's no wonder that she stays in shape as active as she is, but my word. I can trace the curve of her back in the light. Her breasts are not huge, but seem, at least to me, to be just the right size. That long Auburn hair. Even her nose. She sees me enjoying the sight of her and smiles.
"Like what you see, do you?" she asks playfully.
"I do my dear indeed," I smile back.
My happiness is sucked out of me when I make my way back to the back of the truck. The lake is frozen solid. Of course, it is. It was negative twenty-five a few minutes ago and probably much colder now. I am shivering by the truck trying to figure out what to do.
"Get the gear back over there. I am going to drive the truck out in it. It should breakthrough, and then we can hurry into the water," I say as I formulate a plan.
She does as I ask, and I turn the truck around. It takes more than a little bit of willpower to drive the vehicle out on the ice. The front wheels hit, but the ice holds. I continue operating until the whole truck is now on the ice. I can see Sadie in the rearview, a worried look on her face.
I try to rock the truck back and forth to get the ice to give. I'm trying to stay near the shore for apparent reasons. After a few tries, I get a little careless and go farther out on the ice than I have been. When I shift into reverse, I can hear the crack I've been waiting for. I reach for the handle to bail out. Before I can even pull on it, the front of the truck has sunk below the ice. It's as if the ice only broke where the engine is, and the bed is still in the air forcing the cab down. I try, and as expected, I can't get the door open. I reach to roll the window down, and it moves about four inches before I hear a short, and the truck dies. Total darkness surrounds me.
The water is frigid as it fills the cab. Chunks of ice pelt me in the face as I reach for the glass intent on breaking it. I can feel my strength leaving me. Even in my suit, the frigid water is putting me to sleep. My eyes close once, twice. I force them open. I am pulling on the glass, but I don't have the strength to break it. I no longer have the energy for anything. 
I can't hold my breath much longer. I know what that means, and I'm somehow okay with it. 
 
2

I awake on the shore. Sadie is over me, soaking wet and crying.
"Come on, Logan. We have to go now. It is freezing again," she cries.
I seize on these words. I understand what they mean, and I'm dizzily up on my feet at once.
"We don't have time for everything. The two bags in the front are the most important. Let's grab one each. If there is time then we'll come back for the rest," I say to Sadie as I'm moving to the water's edge.
We both put our rebreathers on and grab a bag. It turns out that I can grip another small bag and do so on the way in the water.
When I am fifteen or twenty feet underwater, I look back up, and I can clearly see the ice crystallizing above us. I know the way to the cavern we are looking for, but I am disoriented by the near-death experience. I start heading out, and I feel a slight tug. I turn to see Sadie pointing the other way. I nod my head, and she takes off. What would I do without her? 
3

Sadie weaves her way around rocks and deeper into the lake. We have only been to this cavern once. It is a strange place, oddly warm, and it is illuminated by algae, at least I think its algae. I have always intended to research and find out precisely what it is, but like everything else, I never got around to it.
I don't remember it being quite this far, but I'm probably not the best judge at the moment. I'm still a little hazy from the truck incident. 
After a few minutes, we surface and set on the bank in the big cavern. The air is breathable but stale. It has a strange smell as well, not bad necessarily, just foreign. I'm not sure if it's healthy or not, but it's not like we have any options. 
I look over at Sadie as she is wringing out her hair.
"I'm going to try to go back for the other bag," I say weakly to her.
"No Logan, just let it go honey. We'll make do," she replies.
"I have to go back Sadie if I don't, and then we need something I couldn't forgive myself," I say a little more forcefully than I intend.
"Okay, please be careful," she says sodden in apprehension.
"I will Sadie," I say more confidentially than I feel.
 
4

I find myself bumping up against a shelf of ice. I'm a great deal more disoriented than I should be. I have a bag in each hand, and I know that I need to get back to the cave, but I can't seem to plot a path. I've spent countless hours in these waters and never had this level of confusion. It must be the coldness of the water. It has to be.
With this in mind, I go as deep as I can, attempting to find warmer water. I set at the bottom of the lake for a few minutes, collecting my thoughts. Eventually, more coherent thought enters my head, and I know where I need to go. With a sudden sense of urgency now that I have my wits back, I swim toward the corner of the lake where the passageway I need is.
When I arrive, to my dismay, the ice has reached the tunnel entrance. I swim to the bottom of the lake looking for rock, anything to break through the ice. I drop the bags and grab a large rock. I slam the rock forcefully several times into the ice to no avail. It is not breaking.
I take a moment to gather in my surroundings. The water is getting steadily colder. I can visibly see the ice encroaching all around me. I have managed to get myself into one hell of a fix, and all over two bags. I don't even know what they have in them at this point.
My thoughts go to Sadie, my poor sweet Sadie all alone. She deserved better. I should have listened to her and stayed in the cave. At least I won't have long to kick myself. 
As I reach the lowest point in my entire life, I feel a tug on my shoulder. I turn around and see Sadie right in front of me. My joy at seeing her is quickly replaced with profound sorrow. She has come looking for me and will now share my fate.
Before I can vocalize my frustration, she motions for me to follow. I pick up the bags and do so without question. She leads me away from the tunnel entrance and further down into the lake. I am curious where she is taking me, but I do not interfere as she clearly knows more about what she is doing than I do. So much for the macho guy saving his girl. I would have been dead several times already if it wasn't for this majestic angel swimming before me. 
After a few minutes more we surface in a cave not dissimilar from the one I left her in a lifetime ago.
 
Chapter 8
1: Tanya Robinson, Beaver, Utah

As I look out my living room window, I can see nothing but eternal darkness. The electricity went out days ago. I shine my flashlight through the window at the thermometer. It reads negative seventy-five. The indoor thermometer reads thirty-five. We have wall mounted natural gas heaters throughout the house, and I have every one of them on high, the bill be damned. Jared didn't go to work today. It wouldn't have done any good. A factory can't function without electricity. 
Jared and Sam, our daughter, are coiled up on the floor in front of the heater fast asleep. Jared is trying not to let his fear show, but he's afraid. He'd be a fool not to be. Something is fundamentally wrong, we just don't know what. We can't leave the house. Our old car won't start in this weather. We don't have anywhere to go anyway. The only bright side is that the typical sounds of the city are missing. No gunshots, at least not for a while.
I'm scared to death, petrified actually, that the gas will shut off like the electricity did. I can only imagine how quickly this house will fill with freezing air if that happens.
I glance over at my sleeping family and my heart brakes. I tried hours ago to contract emergency services to see if the city was offering any advice for shelters or anything like that, but the phone was dead. I've never known of a storm knocking out landlines.
 
2: Mark Bevis, New York City

I scarcely got back into the city before all air traffic stopped. This world just gets stranger and stranger. My flight was circling the airport waiting our turn to land, and just as we start our descent, the sun merely winks out. It was inexplicable, to say the very least.
I end up walking home, it's impossible to find a cab tonight. Gary has a warm bowl of soup waiting when I get there. He is such a great guy. A few minutes after I arrive the electricity flickers a few times and then goes off for good.
Gary and I cuddle on the couch until around four a.m. It has become icy with the electric heat off. I check the thermostat, and it says twenty-two degrees. Burr.
I grab my phone and try to get some sort of update on what's going on. Everything I open just spins and spins. This fills me with dread for some reason. I expected the anomaly from yesterday to be explained, and everything to be righted with the rise of the sun this morning. I'm starting to think I may never see that. Unable to stop myself, compelled actually, I recheck the thermostat. The temperature has fallen another four degrees in less than five minutes.
My God. 
 
3: Bryan Reynolds, Birmingham, Alabama

I knew there was a chance that my leave would get cut short, but I never imagined anything like this. I got a call less than fifteen minutes after, "The Event," that's what the news is calling it anyway, to report back to Fort Hood. 
Luckily my truck was full of gas, but I've been on I20 now for a couple of hours, and I have yet to see a single gas station open. There is no way in hell I'm going to make it back to central Texas on one tank of gas. It's getting cold as hell out there too.
I'm jerked out of my thoughts by this guy up ahead on the road. He's just standing in the middle of the street. Maybe he needs a ride? I slow to a stop to see what he needs.
I roll my window down as I approach him. It's too cold for him to be out in this.
"Hey, buddy, everything okay?" I ask.
I see the knife, albeit a second too late as the son of a bitch slashes the side of my face. Without thinking, I reach beside my seat and grab my 9mm Glock 34 and shoot him square between the eyes. Blood and brain matter explode in my face. He falls immediately to the ground.
"What the fuck?" I scream as I'm getting out of my truck.
I try to call the police, but I'm not getting a signal. I grab a towel out of my bag and wipe this poor bastard's brains off of me. What the fuck?
Without other options I get back in my truck, I'm going to try to find the local police station.