Chapter 12
1: Bryan Reynolds, Birmingham, Alabama

I found a police station after I killed that guy. The place was a ghost town. I feel a little sad about killing him, I'm sure he was just desperate, but the bastard cut my face. I would have given him a ride, helped him any way I could. Maybe he wanted to die? If he did, I wish he would have just asked. I've abandoned the search for the police and continued on my journey to Fort Hood.
I haven't been able to find a single gas station open, but I have taken to siphoning gas out of parked vehicles. Desperate times call for drastic measures. It's cold, damn cold, and I don't like my prospects if I run out of gas. Hell, I don't want them if I had all the gas in the world. I think we're fucked on a global scale. It's nine o'clock in the morning, the sun should be up, but it's not. That's a pretty big damn deal I think.
I just passed through Tyler, Texas, almost there. The roads are eerily quiet, and snow is falling. Snow in Texas, I know it happens, but still. I bet I've passed less than a dozen cars on my trek west. Seems strangely peculiar that not even my comrades are mobilized. I would have expected to see the National Guard out everywhere, helping communities. Maybe there are too many communities in need and too few resources. That seems very likely.
I'm not afraid of dying, everyone does it, but I'm not looking forward to it either. The manner of death is vital as well. I do have a bit of a moral dilemma. To put it bluntly, I do not want to freeze to death, period. That means, if the time comes, I should use my sidearm to take myself on out of this world. Therein lies my dilemma. I have a deeply embedded self-preservation mindset. I can't just off myself.
Hopefully, when I get back to post, I will see that the Army has formulated a response, and all is well. I'm not optimistic, though. I think its organizational ability and equipment will help it hang on a little longer, but I don't believe that we're coming back from this.
 
2: Mark Bevis, New York City

The cold has become intolerable. Gary is lying next to me; his breathing is very shallow. We abandoned our apartment hours ago and moved to the center of the apartment complex. Others have joined us. We are all lying next to each other, trying to stay one. I have come to accept that it's a futile effort. I don't know what the temperature is now, but it is colder than anything I have ever experience.
Snow is falling worryingly outside and has been for some time. I assume it's still falling. The last flashlight we had that a guy from the fifth floor brought died a little while ago. Everyone's smartphone is dead, as well. We are trapped in utter darkness, cold darkness.
It has become increasingly harder to breathe. I move my arm to shake Gary. It has become all but impossible to move. With great effort, I place my hand against his chest. I wait for the rise and fall. I cannot feel it. His haggard breathing has ceased. My sweet Gary is dead. There is no sadness. I will be with him again very soon.
I can feel myself slipping into oblivion. I am experiencing the very last moments of my life. The pain is gone or dulled to the point that I don't notice it. My mind takes me back to the spring that Gary and I met. It was such a warm sunny day. That park was majestic.
 
Chapter 13: Lieutenant Commander Jenkins
1

There has been no contact with Washington in the last forty-eight hours. We should have been able to raise another vessel or naval station by now. We have received nil communication. We haven't even heard any civilian chatter; the planet seems silent.
The commander has tasked me with producing a list of options. With these, he wants a thorough risk assessment for each. I have my list together, and I'll perform my due diligence, but I already know the one he should pick, and it is at the top of my list. We should head for NCTS San Diego. It is close, and if we are going to be able to communicate with anyone, it should be them.
I haven't actually taken the time to come to terms with myself over the events of the last few days. I'm pretty sure that my death is not on the horizon. Well, not imminent anyway, but I can't shake the feeling that I am going to have to fundamentally change who I am to survive. 
I have always been physically fit, and that will come in useful. My intelligence will serve me well as will my decent looks, but I'm worried that things could get a little sideways on this boat if we're not careful. People handle stress differently, and we haven't been together as a crew long enough to form any real cohesive bonds. I know some of these sailors have served with each other over the years, so there will be pockets of loyalty. I'm just afraid of who they'll be loyal to. 
I have briefed Commander Erickson regarding my fears. He believes they are mislaid. He has handpicked this crew, or so he says and knows their inner hearts. I think that is a fool's errand, but I would never say that to his face. I have little doubt that someone is already stirring the pot. I've seen expressions that don't register as overly vicious but are unsettling none the less. I will continue trying to counsel the Commander as best I can, but I will not be separated from my sidearm for the duration of this voyage.
 
2

I just finished a very long and unproductive meeting with Commander Erickson. How can he be so blind to the danger? Last night an Ensign was raped in the shower, not just raped, but repeatedly. One of the more disturbing parts is that it wasn't only a few of the men. Some of the women participated as well. It's as if they saw the young officer as some sort of trophy that they could take off the shelf. The commander thinks that it was an isolated incident, and the sailors involved will be punished. How do you punish them when you can't even go to the surface? I guess we could shoot them out a torpedo shaft.
It's not just them either, there are only six officers on the boat. The rest are enlisted. They seem to be banding together. With every passing hour, another sailor is disobeying an order. They are getting more open about it as well. I saw a situation last night where Commander Erickson ordered a sailor to do something, and the guy just shrugged it off and sat where he was. Nobody said anything. The commander just walked out.
 
Chapter 14: Logan
1

I awake with Sadie on top of me. She is smiling and kissing me playfully on the chest. I smile back, and she rewards me by reaching her slightly cold hand into my underwear. She leers at what she finds. My eyes close with the sensation. I feel immense warmth when I enter her. The heat that is the nectar of life. She slowly and sweetly makes love to me, and when I signal her that it's time to stop, she just shakes her head and continues. My climax explodes into her, and I wonder, but only briefly, if it's fair to bring a life into this dying world.
 
2

We nap for quite a while after our little encounter. When I awake, I notice that the cave looks a bit changed. I sit up swiftly and see, to my dismay, that the ice has impinged several feet into the cave. I promptly get up and check the entire area. The grotto that we are in is now cut off from all the rest. When we went to sleep, we had a frozen puddle on one side, and an unfrozen channel on the other. That tunnel leads to the more prominent cavern that Sadie brought us through when she rescued me. We are also now cut off from a substantial portion of this cavern. Shit, how did I not see that this could happen? How did the ice come upon the rock that rapidly?
Sadie rouses to me bashing a massive rock into the ice obstructing the tunnel. It is compacted, the stone I am using splinters against it. I look back at her when I hear her stir, unguarded terror in my eyes. She quickly comprehends the origin of my apprehension and stands speechless.
 
3

Several days have passed, and the ice has only encroached further into our grotto. I've stood by helpless to stop it. Sadie started getting sick a day ago, or maybe two. It's tough to concentrate, and my head is killing me. Even the simplest tasks seem exhausting. Sadie has the same symptoms. We must have caught the flu or something before this mess started. Perfect timing, just like everything else. At least she's sleeping peacefully. Her breathing is ragged and painful to watch. I should do something, but I can't concentrate. 
I vomit uncontrollably between my feet. I should go lie down beside Sadie, but my vision is fuzzy and weird. Something is really not right. I crawl over to where she is. Panic seizes me. Her head is convulsed back. She has vomited and is choking on it. I frantically clear her throat and give her mouth to mouth. Dammit, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. 
Maybe it's the air? Perhaps we have carbon dioxide poisoning or monoxide? Whatever the hell it is. I don't know the difference. I have to get access to the other cave. An intense thought finds its way to the front of my mind through the fog. The Sterno, I can burn a hole in the ice and take us through it.
I viciously tear through our supplies trying to find the little cans, destroying all of Sadie's hard work. I locate one and rush to the ice that leads to the main cavern. Dammit, no way to light it. I run back to the now disorganized pile of supplies and hunt for a pack of lighters. I eventually get one out of the package with a high amount of difficulty.
I light the wick and absently put the lighter into my pocket; it flickers but is evidently having trouble burning. It will never burn through the ice like that at any rate. I don't have time for this shit. I grab the remaining Sterno cans and frantically open each one. I grab the comforter off the top of Sadie and throw it on the flame. It only smokes for a minute or two, then it roars to life. I throw anything else I can find nearby on the blaze. I can see the ice starting to melt. Even the algae are burning.
The cave is filling with smoke. Fuck, what the hell was I thinking? I start coughing irrepressibly. I kick at the inferno and fall through the ice. Before the last of consciousness can flee me, I leap to Sadie and grab her. Thank God she is tiny. I plunge with her into the abyss.
 
Chapter 15: Dr. John Harvey
1

"I'm Sam," the little girl says to me as I'm settling back into the driver's seat.
"That's a lovely name," I respond honestly.
"How old are you, Sam?" I inquire.
"I will be five in, how many days momma?" she asks.
"Nine days sweetheart," Her mom responds stoically. You can tell it is taking her entire being to hold back the wellspring of tears that must inevitably flow.
I continue to converse with the young girl for quite a spell. She is undoubtedly brilliant. I take great care not to mention her father, I assume he was her father anyway, but I'm sure it will inevitably come up.
The volume of snow falling has tripled in the last hour. I am fearful that we are finally descending into that zone where the atmosphere will begin to freeze. The snowfall will only increase from this point on until it reaches the one hundred meters or so that is expected. I'm not sure how the beast will handle the additional accumulation. So far, there has not been a noticeable change in how it grips the road. There are about four inches, or so of buildup, I would say. It is not packed, so that helps as well.
It would be lovely, if not so disastrous. A winter wonderland to end all winter wonderlands. We have made good time thus far, all things considered, but my unease is mounting with every mile we get nearer to Las Vegas. It is the last major city before we get to California, and I think that circumstances have depreciated to the point that people will have grasped that there will be no recovery. With that comprehension, people will become desperate. This deafening, warm looking beast will be nothing less than a beacon for anyone who would want to do us harm.
 
2

As I drive out of Las Vegas, I have to wonder if the uncertainties I've had thus far have been rational. We have come halfway across the country, and I haven't seen a single person that desired to do us ill. The man at the edge of Tanya's yard acted amicably and reasonably. No hysteria to be found. Perhaps I should quit letting fear cloud my judgment. Isn't it entirely possible that people will not lose all sense of morality in a time of crisis?