Chapter 1: Dr. John Harvey
1

 Pitch black. I thought I knew what darkness was. I had no idea. I went to the surface area, away from the compound, and there is absolutely no light to be found, save for what is emanating from this very facility. If someone had asked me before this happened if I were happy, I would have told them no, a resounding no. I had no reason to be unhappy and many things to be appreciative for, but I was not. Not that it matters much now, those things have all been swept away, like so much sand in the desert wind. Years of education followed by years of scientific study swept away in the blink of an eye. Of all my accomplishments, I have, but one that I would be remembered by was there anyone left to evoke me. I have destroyed the past, present, and future of all mankind.
As I’m sure most grand mistakes are, mine was born out of a need to leave the world better than I found it. My intent, if you can call the blinded pursuit of something intent, was to create an inexhaustible energy source for the betterment of the entire world. In a word, I succeeded, quite well too. It would be uncouth for me to say that I invented technology. No, I didn’t create anything, not actually. I merely learned to understand a few things, and out of those few things, some machinery was born. Had I left things where they were five years ago, I would have succeeded in my endeavor. The world’s energy crisis would have been erased, and I would have lived up to the legendary figure that most seemed to think that I was. 
I could not leave well enough alone, though. I could not go silently into retirement. As laughable as that is at thirty-nine. I entered into a dangerous game of one-upmanship with myself, and guess what? I won. I can safely say that I outdid myself. When I look at the readings for the surface outside this bunker, it is a balmy negative fifteen degrees and falling. The sun has only been gone for two days. Within a week, it will be one hundred below. Not long after that, as the temperature continues to plummet, the oceans will freeze. And so on, and so on.
Why do I bother to go on when I know that there will be no virtuous end to this? Because I fucked up. Plain and straightforward. I thought I knew more than I did, and I didn’t. When I initially, five years ago, solved the world’s energy problem I discovered, oh hell, who am I kidding, I stumbled upon a way to create little clouds of energy. This is not precisely correct. In fact, they favored black holes more than clouds, but for the sake of description, let’s press on. In essence, these clouds, when appropriately contained, provided a nearly inexhaustible energy source. All was well and good. Fossil fuels were no longer being used for electricity production, and there were only a few vehicles left on the road that were not electric.
My great folly was trying to export this technology to outer space to provide power for whatever extraterrestrial endeavors humanity could think up. With this in mind, a mission was planned and executed. A spacecraft, using conventional rocket fuel was launched. Once in open space, and near the sun, the cloud engine on the spaceship was to initialize, and it was expected to be able to explore the entirety of the universe. What we didn’t know at the time what I didn’t realize is that the clouds worked perfectly on earth because they were contained underground in perfect conditions. As soon as the mission engineers began initializing the cloud engine, a fantastic explosion occurred, and the world went dark. 
My colleagues have been searching for the last two days trying to find out what happened. I already know, but I don’t have the heart, or the courage, to tell them. The sun is gone. A cloud was created, without containment, it grew exponentially, within moments it gained critical mass to transform into a black hole. Past this point is where my understanding gets fuzzy. Logic would suggest that a black hole big enough to suck in the sun would have taken the planets as well. I’m not sure about Mercury, but I know that Venus wasn’t taken, nor anything farther out in space. The earth, minus its star, has now left orbit and is floating hopelessly alone in space. If they were not so preoccupied, my colleagues would see that we are moving quickly away from our neighbors. I have already observed that Mars is much, much farther away, as are the other planets. In fact, the earth isn’t just moving away, it is racing away. Before long, we will be floating dark and alone in the endless expanse of space.
So what should I do now? I could probably survive in this bunker for several years, but to what end? It hardly seems worth the effort at this point. Have I loved anyone? Not really, I have enjoyed an idea or two, but people, not so much. I always considered myself a member of society who is slightly outside. I played well with others, but usually only out of necessity. I have always been an avid reader and have loved entering imaginary worlds drenched in heroes and heroines who rush in to save the day in the nick of time. Well, there will be none of that here. This goose is cooked. The only thing tomorrow will bring is an empty stomach, but not for me, and constant sorrow. And of course death, there will be no escaping that.
I have everything I need to leave the world or to stay in it. I can smell the pile of dishes in the sink over there, and it is making me nauseous. Why did I refuse the maid service? My pistol, no idea what kind it is, is sitting on the table in front of me in all its blackened glory. In a moment I could end everything, for me at least. That would almost be just. The man who destroyed the world exiting before he even got to see the last flame of humanity squashed out. I’m sure that the gods, whatever they might be, would find a special place in hell for a man such as that. I have picked it up numerous times. Each time, so far, I have sat it back down. I don’t want to die, even now, as I’m sure the people who have already frozen to death topside did not want to die. I have the means to survive, at least for a time. 
In an almost comic fashion, I slam the pistol down for the last time on the table. I will not end my own suffering. I do not deserve that. I will see this child born of my ambition through to the end. No good will come of it. My God, how could it? Everything, everything, is lost. The earth is spiraling through space. Our world, as we have always known it is no more. Thank you, Dr. Harvey.
A loud, almost obnoxious knocking wakes me from the Congress I have convened inside my head.
“Dr. Harvey, General Johnson has requested your presence in conference room B. Can I tell him that you’re on your way, sir?” an unknown voice asks through the squawk box.
“Yes, of course, and can you please have the maid service come to my room? The smell in here is atrocious,” comes my instant reply.
“I will see what I can do, sir. The staff is insufficient right now,” the unknown voice answers and says no more.
Without further thought, I dress and make my way to sublevel four and questions that I cannot candidly answer.
 
2

The general looks, as can be anticipated, like he hasn’t slept in ages. I’m sure he will have inquiries for me. Oh hell, who am I kidding, he will try to pin this on me, and duly so, for it is my responsibility. What will it matter anyway, it's not like they’re going to lock anyone in jail anytime soon? What prison, on the surface? A bullet would be slower. No, the more significant punishment would be to let me live. I am roused from my stupor when he begins to speak.
“Dr. Harvey, as you know we have a situation on our hands,” General Johnson provides.
No shit, I think, a situation indeed. The general’s wide-set ice blue eyes are haunted. They don’t match his concrete gray hair and dainty nose at all.
“Our intelligence indicates, and I can’t believe I’m saying this, it shows that the sun is no longer with us doctor,” he continues.
“I am aware General, although I have trouble believing it,” I say feigning astonishment.
I’m not sure why I’m lying at this point, but it feels necessary for my continued survival, so I do so.
“I don’t believe it myself, but I only know what the intelligence services tell me. The surface temperature has dropped considerably and shows no sign of abating. We have a real situation here, doctor. I was wondering if you have any input or theories as to the causation or possible remedies,” the general finished absently.
“I have none, unfortunately,” I reply truthfully.
Causation yes, but what good would causation do other than getting me killed? I don’t expect to come out of this unscathed, or at all, but I will not purposefully be the sacrificial lamb. 
“My research shows virtually the same things as your intelligence has disclosed. The sun is no more, and we are no longer in orbit of any kind,” I provide.
“I thought you would agree with me, doctor. I am trying to be professional about this situation, but pulling at the back of my mind is the status of my family which I have not heard from since this event began,” the general says seeming very remorseful.
Your family is most likely dead, I think, but do not say.
“I’m sure they are alive general,” I say attempting to comfort him.
In truth, they probably are. Most people, this far away that are dead would have been homeless. Electrical grids in many cities were overloaded almost immediately, but those heating with propane or natural gas should be dark, but nice and toasty. Well, toasty maybe isn’t correct. Not frozen at least.
“General, I think that the situation is dire, to be honest. At this date, I see no road to recovery. All existence, sentient or otherwise, has always been dependent on the infinite power constantly radiating from the sun. In its absence, I can’t imagine any species, even an intelligent one, having a long-term survival,” I state with measured regret.
“So we should all just say fuck it, and call it a day doctor? ” Johnson asks, visibly perturbed.
“Perhaps,” I say, sheepishly.
“That’s the dumbest thing I have ever heard Doctor, and I have made a career out of listening to stupid ass people. I may not have your intellect. In fact, I’m quite sure that I don’t, but I would never dream in a million years that you could give up on everything so quickly. For God’s sake, what else is there?” he replies.
“Nothing, and more nothing,” I respond, feeling the full depth of my grief.
At this moment, the real gravity of the situation sets in on me. There is no coming back from this. I will end. Everything I know will end. Humanity will end. All thanks to the heroic escapades of one renowned Harvard physicist. Well, fuck me, and the horse I rode in on.
“We can fix this,” I state without a clue as to why I say it.
Perhaps to give the old man hope, for there is none to be had, not really.
“Our problems stem from the sun, our sun, being absent. Or to be more precise, gone from existence. The way to correct this is to put the sun back in its place,” I say with trepidation.
“So you think we can, as you say, put the sun back doctor?” he asks.
“No, not at all,” I reply,
General Johnson and the rest of his council stare at me intently. Inwardly I cringe. The room has taken on a smell of sewer gas.
I can feel the intensity in the chamber. Everyone here is looking at me to provide the answer. To correct a wrong that cannot be altered.
Before I can stop it, my mouth betrays me, “I think we can replace it, General.”
“You don’t say,” he says to me incredulously.
“Not as it sounds general, I only mean that we have the technology to create a similar entity. With a similar purpose, but vastly different makeup,” I reply.
This was bullshit, of course, but what else was I to say. These people wanted answers, and I had none.
“General, I believe it will get much, worse before it gets better. The oceans will freeze to a certain depth. The temperatures will eventually plummet to around negative four hundred degrees. And lastly, and most devastating of all, the atmosphere will freeze and fall to the earth. This will cause untold death and devastation. If there is anything left at that point to observe it,” I state putting all of my cards on the table.
“That doesn’t sound like much of a plan doctor,” he responds, visibly perplexed.
It’s not a plan you fool, I think, but do not say. I quivered with indignation but managed to stay the ferocity of my tongue. I was not in a position to lecture anyone.
“It’s not a plan General, I just want to get that out of the way upfront. What we can do, at least initially, is go underground. Or in our case, stay underground. We have the technology to survive below the surface for the foreseen future. As to a remedy for this problem, at present, I do not have one,” I say weighted with emotion.
“Well, the timing of this event could not have been worse, not that there would ever have been a good time. We have several projects running concurrently out of this facility. Most of which, I’m sure you have no knowledge of. DNA, exploration, cloning, well you get the idea. The point is that we have the best and brightest working right here in this facility on any given day, just not this day. With the holiday season in full swing, most everyone has gone home. I issued a personnel recall not long after this event and do you know how many people have reported back in Doctor?” Johnson asks.
“I do not know General,” I reply.
General Johnson begins a response when the room we’re in rumbles and the electricity shuts off.
“That is bizarre,” Johnson begins, “The battery backup should,” but he is unable to finish. A steel beam, at least that’s what it sounds like bursts through the ceiling and silences him at once. The force throw’s me and my chair against the wall. My head connects violently with it. An acrid metallic burning smell replaces the sewer gas and fills the room.
Screams erupt all around me. I am, for the moment, thunderstruck. I can hear the mayhem all around me, but I am unable to move from my chair. Fear claws through me. A cloud of debris from the ceiling pelt my face. I am, in actuality, affixed to my chair. I realize, probably better than most in this room, that we are trapped far underground, and that the lights will most likely not be coming back on. After a few moments, I attempt to quell the riot.
“Colleagues,” I say without much enthusiasm. “Colleagues!” I try again with much more force.
The room is silenced at once.
“Hysteria will do none of us any good. Who do we have conscious in here?” I ask.
“Mary Rodgers,” comes one reply.
“Jason Reinhold,” comes another.
So two out of six people, not counting me.
The others are either unconscious or more likely according to the sound of the beam, dead.
“Okay Mary and Jason, we need to keep our heads here,” I say trying to calm them as well as myself.
I can hear someone stand across from me. A brilliant explosion of light paints the room. Screams once again fill the chamber. An overcooked pork smell wafts my way, and I wretch between my legs.
“Fuck,” I manage.
“What the hell was that?” I ask.
“I think that was Jerry,” Mary replies meekly.
Dear God, I think, how the hell do we proceed from here? I can kid myself and toy with the idea that the other people in this room are only sleeping. I could do that, but I won’t. They are dead, dead as shit. For all, I know Mary, and I could be the only two sad souls left on this rock, or under it, I should say.
“Okay, Mary, sit very still. There is an emergency flashlight in the panel behind me. I’m going to try to find it,” I say to her trying to keep her calm.
I grope blindly behind me for the emergency container. After a few minutes, I find it and opening it too hastily, I spill half its contents onto the floor. Several excruciatingly long moments later, I locate the round tube, awash in my vomit, that I have been searching for. Inside my head, I say a silent prayer. I’m not a religious person by nature, but this is pretty damn serious. If no one has replaced these batteries recently, Mary and I are entirely and irrevocably screwed. It's not like we’re not already anyway, but still, I like a fighting chance. While these thoughts are racing through my mind, my index finger, betraying my procrastination, depresses the button and a cone of light illuminates the small room. Excitement runs through me at this minor victory.
My delight is speedily ripped away. I instantly see that my predictions were correct. Everyone in this room, save Mary and me, are dead. The General’s body what’s left of it anyway is scattered around and on top of that end of the table. I can feel my remaining lunch rising up in my throat. I have to get control of myself.
I don’t know Mary, I’ve seen her around from time to time. I’m not sure what her purpose in this facility is, though. She’s young, too young for me, and not hard on the eyes, so yeah I’ve noticed her. It’d be hard not to see those mahogany long-lashed eyes and her luscious red lips. Focus you fool, I scold myself inwardly.
I glance over and see poor Mary looking at me frantically. Staring at me to be her salvation, oh if she only knew what a hopeless coward she has been coupled with. 
Pull yourself together, man, now is not the time. 
The flashlight is weak. The batteries, although a godsend, are apparently in need of replacement. The emergency lights should be on. This thought races to the front of my mind. If the emergency lights are not on, the most basic of emergency systems, what else is off? Ventilation, heating? At this thought, a stark realization hits me that I should have seen all along. This bunker has ventilation, coming from the outside, not oxygen scrubbers. For a time, were they working, they would merely pour freezing oxygen into the bunker, but with the atmosphere going. Dear God, we can’t stay in this shelter, and we can’t leave. With these thoughts, my heart plummets to my feet, and my resolve breaks.
 
Chapter 2: Logan
1

“I almost have all of the gear stowed in the Jeep Sadie grab the rest of your stuff and let’s get going,” I shout from across the house. 
“Okay, Logan,” Sadie replies faintly.
It sounds like she’s making her way outside. That’s good, we’re ahead of schedule and the riots, chaos, and rapid temperature drop that is soon to follow. The sun hasn’t come up in over thirty-six hours. Sadie and I are heading to one of our favorite dive points, Phantom Spring Cave. I’m not a scientist, but I do know that something catastrophic has happened, and the authorities are staying mum about it. 
A few years ago, while exploring the cave’s inner passageways, we found an underground cave system only accessible via a deep dive. It was unnaturally warm, or naturally depending on your perspective. It also had access to freshwater. Last, and most importantly, no one else knows about it.
I spare one final glance at our living room, shining my flashlight all around. My baseball glove lying on the recliner, never to be worn again. An unopened UPS package, a useless printer cartridge. I steal a final glance at the pictures hanging on the wall, we are not taking them. There isn’t any time for such niceties. If my apprehension is mislaid, then we can come back and collect these items later. I don’t think I’m wrong. I have a deep suspicion that I will never be back here again.
I close the door behind me, judiciously locking it, and make my way to the Jeep. I throw the last bag into the back and jump inside. Sadie has it running and the heater on high. Man is it cold outside. Remain calm, that’s what the authorities are saying. Remain calm and stay in your home. Like hell, I will. 
As I reach for the shifter to shift into first, my hand brushes Sadies. I look over at her. She looks as if she is in shock or very near it.
“I love you, Sadie. We are going to figure this out, baby. We have a plan,” I say as I shift into first and pull out into the highway.
There is no one else on the road.
2

It’s a little over an hour drive to the cave. So far, I’ve seen very few other cars on the road. I’m sure in part, it is due to the early hour, but I doubt that most people are sleeping. I’m positive most are heeding the government warning. Poor sheep, not like it matters if the sun has stopped shining. Sadie and I can hole up in the cave for a time, but long-term? Who knows. 
Distracted by this, I almost hit a guy standing in the road. As I narrowly miss him, he slings a rock into my back glass. The glass shattering is harrowing.
“What the heck?” I ask aloud.
“I think he was trying to make us stop,” Sadie replies.
For what? I almost ask, but don’t. I know for what. The paper mache of civilization has become wet and will soon begin to crumble. I reach over impulsively and squeeze her hand. She rewards me with a weak smile that saddens my heart. We were to be married this spring. I wish now that we hadn’t waited. It looks like spring may never come. I push these thoughts out of my mind. There is no room for them anymore. I have to survive this day, and then the next. Anything past that is a luxury that I can ill afford to fantasize about. 
As I top a hill, I see a collection of cars blocking the road ahead. A truck with floodlights illuminates the surrounding area. They are not police cars. An ominous feeling possesses me.
“Please don’t stop Logan,” Sadie pleads in a shaky breath.
“I wouldn’t think of it,” I reply and press down on the accelerator.
As we come closer upon the roadblock, to my mounting consternation, I can see that at least two of the men have rifles against their shoulders and point straight at us. My annoyance flares and I entertain the thought of driving directly into the bastards.
“Get down,” I manage to get out as the first bullet takes off the driver's side mirror.
Sadie obliges me and quickly gets below the dashboard. Thankfully, this part of Texas is ridiculously flat, and I immediately steer the Jeep to leave the road. I can hear the bullets following behind as another strikes the Jeep. Sadie screams. The round passed through her door near her feet. Why the hell didn’t I veer the other way? We are coming up even with the roadblock now, and Sadie’s side is facing them.
I try to push down harder on the pedal, but it is already firmly on the floor and cannot go any further. The Jeep is whining viciously as it tries to gain speed. It wants to be an obedient beast. The heart is willing, but it is old, and it shows.
I’m trembling with fury and indignation when two more bullets slam through the back and side glass. I can hear the gunfire fade away as we pull away from them and back onto the road. A few moments later, to my horror, I can see lights flicker on. The bastards are following us.
What to do, what to do? I have no weapons. Well, I have a survival knife packed away in our packs. It wouldn’t do much good if it were accessible, and it's not. I still have the old Jeep floored, and I can feel the lights pulling further away for a few moments, and then I can tell that they are gaining. 
Several minutes pass in this fashion. We are a good fifteen minutes from the cave, and at this rate, the Jeep will never make it. Besides that, I don’t want to let these maniacs know where I am heading. Think. Think. Think.
Without further thought, I turn off all of the lights and veer off to the left. I drive as far as I can physically make myself drift away from the path that we were on. It is so dark that every inch is painful. I kill the engine. My progress had been slowed to merely rolling forward out of fear of wrecking and being stranded. Less than a minute later the lights top a hill and a caravan of no less than three vehicles speeds by. The thought of them up there ahead is not pleasing, maybe I can go an alternate route.
Twenty minutes later, when I think they’re far enough ahead, I depress the clutch to start the Jeep. The engine turns over but will not start. I was afraid of this. Dammit, why did I kill the motor? It's not like they could have heard it. I slam my head into the steering wheel, blaring the horn. I quickly pull my head back. I have to get control of myself and this situation soon. 
 
Chapter 3: Commander Erickson
1

“In my fifteen years sailing the seas I have never seen a darker night,” I say to Lieutenant Commander Jenkins.
“It is indeed for me as well, Commander,” Jenkins replies.
“How is the crew holding up?” I ask, knowing the answer.
“Not so well, sir. They’re a smart bunch, and they see the writing on the wall,” Jenkins provides.
“And what is that writing, Commander?” I ask
“That the seas are freezing, will be frozen long before we can make it to shore. That we will either be trapped in the ice or below it,” Jenkins says solemnly.
“A fair assessment. Please go below and do what you can to bolster moral Commander,” I direct.
“Aye Aye, Commander,” Jenkins states and heads below deck.
The situation is dire or more aptly described as desperate. We can’t make it to shore, and if we dive we buy a little time, but who knows when we’ll be able to surface again.
As if that thought provokes a response, the sea begins to rapidly solidify all around me. I turn to make my way to the hatch to go below. I can feel the temperature slipping further into oblivion. The temperature has gone from uncomfortable to unbearable in a matter of moments. I enter the hatch and slam it shut after me.
“Prepare to dive!” I shout as loudly as I can.
“We have to get below the surface as quickly as we can,” I continue.
I can hear the crackling ice outside of the submarine. If it is as bad as it sounds out there, we will be crushed in a matter of moments.
“Quickly, we must dive post-haste!” I shout.
I should have seen this coming. We’re never going to dive in time. The sound from outside is menacing. The structural integrity of the vessel is becoming a factor. We could escape through the top only to freeze to death right outside. 
I can feel the boat starting to dive. Thank goodness. A heart-rending sound of ripping steel emanates from the vessel. An enormous snap encourages me that we’ve broken free. With a final crack, we begin our descent toward the seafloor.
 
2

As I look at my quarters, I can’t help to wonder how long it will be before I see the sky again. It seems that may never happen if what I have been told out of Washington is any indication. How the hell does the sun vanish? It would be amusing if it weren’t so damn dire. It’s hard to believe it was only two months ago when I took the helm of the USS Washington and ordered her out to sea. I was on top of the world. Now she may very well be my tomb. That may be, but at present, she is a blessing. 
So how fortunate are we? I take out a pad and pen and attempt to take stock. Since we have just been commissioned, we have a brand new boat and mostly full stores. When we set out, we had a year’s worth of supplies for a crew of one hundred and twenty enlisted and fourteen officers. We have less than a third of that as we were to take on the rest in six weeks. We have been at sea for eight weeks, so we should have around eleven months or so of rations left for a full crew. Since we’re not a complete team, that should equate to roughly thirty to thirty-five months. Not perfect, but a damn good bit of time to figure a few things out. It can and will be stretched further as we will start rationing it immediately.
My primary concern, besides those of the environmental kind, is how best to keep order. Also, with a crew partially made up of females, how do I ensure the health and welfare of all of them? Luckily, only the best and brightest are members of this first crew. That should afford us a great deal. They are all dedicated patriots, which I have hand-selected. We should be okay in that regard.
 

Chapter 4: Dr. John Harvey
1

The alarms are maddening; how can they still work when the emergency lights do not. I make my way into the hallway. I scan the floor in front of me and notice a small object. Is that a tampon? Someone must have left in a hurry.
I have to get to the cafeteria, to gather supplies. Mary is following quietly behind me. Occasionally I’ll turn around just to verify that she’s still there. I step over a bra as I turn down another hallway. We travel down several hallways to a corridor adjacent to the cafeteria. When I round the corner, an unsettling site appears. The path is completely obstructed.
“Fuck!” I scream.
Mary says nothing. For some reason, this really pissed me off. I look around and quickly locate a ventilation shaft. Of course, I can’t reach it.
I’m going to try to lift you up Mary, see if you can pull open the vent. I lift her up, and she toys with it for a few minutes, unable to open it.
I put her back down and start to search the nearby offices. I try a chair. I can just reach the vent, but how the hell am I going to get up in it? I step back down and go up and down several hallways looking in every closet I can find. A ladder would be beautiful, though I’m not optimistic I will find one. My luck hasn’t really been on of late. 
Finally, I land upon a utility closet of sorts. Inside I find a ladder and a small tool bag. There is also an overused mattress, but I have no need of that right now. I grab the ladder and tool bag and head back to Mary. 
I rapidly remove the vent cover and get inside the vent. It is cramped, but there is enough room. It is dusty and smells musty. I help Mary up, and she follows along behind me.
I make my way toward the cafeteria. At least I think I am. My sense of direction is a little hampered in this deep dark shaft. I abruptly smell patchouli, and it's somehow unsettling. After I crawl a while, I feel a lightning strike detonate in my hand. I have cut it with something very sharp. With a slight reservation, I shine the light on it. It is bleeding profusely. Anger poisons my brain at my own stupidity.
“What’s wrong?” Mary asks.
So you decided to rejoin the world? I think, but do not say. I should just leave you in the vent and be done with this whole ordeal.
“I’ve cut my hand, pretty badly,” I say.
“Let me see it,” Mary offers.
“Are you a doctor?” I ask as I show her my hand.
“Yes, but not the kind you are referring to. I am a doctor like you, although I did have to complete some of the same classes as med students, so I’ll do in a pinch. This laceration looks bad, but it’s clean-cut,” she states.
Mary rips part of her shirt off and makes short work of my ailment. She has trouble meeting my eyes without blushing. I attain an immediate fondness for her. This person that I was considering leaving only a moment ago. I can tell by the tenderness of her touch that she is a compassionate person. Far more so than I am.
“Thank you,” I manage when she finishes.
“Your welcome Dr. Harvey,” she replies.
“John, please, call me John,” I request.
“Okay John, you can call me Mary then,” she says.
Without another word, we start out again. I am more careful now in light of my recent injury. I should have been more cautious. I also find that I am in increasing need to verify that Mary is behind me. What is this strange fondness that I have for her all of a sudden? Did one good act of kindness pierce my despicable heart? Is it the way she looks at me, or rather the way she can’t? It's part sexual to be sure, but that’s not all.
We travel onward for a few more minutes. We should have reached another vent register by now. I can feel the anxiety steadily building inside of me. All I can see ahead is more ductwork, and Mary is blocking my path behind. Triggered by my growing trepidation, the light begins to fade.
“No, dammit. Not now,” I scream at the flashlight as its last bit of light winks out.
Mary lets a meek whimper escape her but says no more. 
There is really nothing else to do but continue forward and hope that I can find a way out. I continue forward. I know it’s probably in my head, but it feels as though the shaft is narrowing. As if it's closing in on me. Before long, I am aware that it is not my imagination. The shaft is getting smaller. At once, a blinding pain reverberates through my head. I have hit a dead end.
“I think we’ve hit an impasse, Mary, are you able to turn around?” I ask her.
“I think so,” she says, and I can hear her starting to do so.
“Okay, John, I’m facing back the way we came. Now what?” she asks.
“You will have to move forward until we come back to an intersection with another tunnel so that I can get back in front,” I say.
“I, I don’t think I can do that, John. I don’t think I can,” Mary says in a trembling voice.
Is there room for me to climb over her? Maybe, who knows?
“Okay Mary, I’m going to try to get over you. Lie as flat as you can,” I say.
Mary doesn’t respond, but I can hear her as she positions her body flatly against the bottom of the ventilation shaft. I start climbing over her. I’m trying to be modest, but my body is being pushed down into her. I can feel her skirt being pulled up as I move over her. I don’t know whether to stop, back up, or keep going. I’m starting to fear that we may get stuck during this maneuver. Even in my peril, visions of her stunning body flood my mind as man’s less than better nature kicks in. I can get my hips over hers, and I feel relief wash over me that we are not trapped in the shaft. Another emotion, disgust at my arousal, covers me as well.
After an indefinable amount of time later, my head once again slams into a dead end. I can tell immediately that it’s a grate of some kind under my hands. I work frantically trying to knock it free before insanity can take the last vestige of my mind. It doesn’t budge. They created some unyielding grates in the place, I think cynically. I slam my fists repeatedly. I can feel the blood flowing freely from my injury. I’m quite sure I’ve opened up a gash on my other hand as well. I slam my fists into the grate one final time, and without warning it gives way, and I tumble into the darkness below.
 
2

I find myself in another utility closet. The utter darkness of this place is demoralizing. I have no idea where in the compound I am.
“Are you okay?” I hear Mary ask from above.
“Yes, I have to find a light. Wait here,” I reply absently.
Where else would she wait? She’s still up in the shaft. Unless she wants to make a spectacular entrance like I did. I have to look at a nearby office. Every office should have an emergency kit inside. The keyword is should.
I grope for the doorknob and finally seize on it. I open the door into more darkness and rub my shoulder against the wall as I make my way down the hall. After only a few feet, I touch the frame of another door. I enter the room and begin working my way down the wall until I find what I am looking for. I rub my hand around until I locate the latch at the top of the box and open it more carefully this time. I fumble for the tube shape of the flashlight and grasp it. With apprehension, I push the button, and I am rewarded with an eye-shocking flood of light. I now have not only a flashlight, but it appears I have one with fresh batteries to boot. My morale rises immeasurably. 
I make my way back to the utility closet and help Mary down. She forces me to sit down right outside the door so that she can re-bandage my damaged hand. I really lucked out finding her. It's nice that she’s taking care of my hand, but I can’t imagine what my mental state would be right now if I were all alone. I may never have liked people before, and I’m not sure how I feel now, but this is definitely a different game. I don’t relish the idea of being alone at the end.
Mary finishes her handy work and then looks up at me. It looks as though she’s going to say something but doesn’t. I don’t force the issue.
“We need to see if there are any supplies in that closet and look for a floor map. Also, we should search in these nearby offices to get another flashlight or two. I don’t relish the thought of total darkness again,” I state trying to sound more confident than I feel.
“I agree; we also need to gather some medical supplies from the same kits. You will clearly need more in the hours to come, and who knows what we will come across. It also seems to me that it is getting colder and harder to breathe; the longer the power stays off. We should take that into consideration and try to plan for it,” Mary says, blowing my mind.
Where did this confident woman come from? She is apparently no longer in shock and is in control of herself. Thank God, because I am not. I am teetering on the edge of an abyss.
“Good plan, Mary, let's see what we can find,” I reply, and we get to work.

 
3

It doesn’t take long for us to locate all of the useful items in the immediate area. For our troubles, we discover a small tool bag, three new flashlights, a few medical supplies, and some trash bags. Two of the lamps are fully charged. One is at half power according to the led readout on the side.
I find myself staring at Mary as she is packing our small items into the tool bag. I don’t mean to, and I don’t want to creep her out, but something about this situation is hastening my need to connect with another human being. Not sexually, not really anyway. If I die right now, and I’m sure I will soon, no one, if there were anyone alive, would care. No one. This thought makes me morose. What have I done with my life? I’ve created an empty void. A meaningless existence, worse I’ve destroyed it for everyone else. And besides, she is gorgeous and becoming more so by the minute. I see her mouth moving, and shame brings me out of my inner monolog.
“What did you say?” I ask meekly.
“Is everything okay?” she asks, looking concerned.
“Yes fine, thanks, just lost in thought,” I lie.
“Okay good, I think there is a map board over there, at least it looks like one,” she says, shining the light on the object.
“Great, let’s check it out,” I say and start moving at once.
It is a map board. This one is a master board that takes up most of this wall. I begin eagerly scanning from the ‘you are here star’ in every direction attempting to locate the nearest cafeteria. To my horror, we are now on level two, and the closest cafeteria is the one that we initially set out for. It is now on the other side of the compound.
“Fuck!” I scream before I can help myself.
“What John?” Mary asks quizzically.
“The cafeteria is all the way on the other side of the compound,” I confide.
“Oh, I see. In that case, and in light of our decreasing temperature and oxygen, maybe we should make our way here,” Mary opines.
I move over to where she is and shine my light on her finger. It is hovering just below a label that reads Mar’s Mission Research and Development Annex.
“Mars?” I ask.
“No, not today, but if they have things there that can sustain life on Mars, then reason would suggest that it would sustain it here as well. I have no idea, but it’s worth a shot. Besides, I don’t think sustenance is going to be our first real problem,” she says.
Damn, she’s right of course. We’ll freeze to death or suffocate long before we succumb to starvation. Man, I’m really not batting too good right now.
“Of course, Mary, you are correct. This is our best shot. Let’s see how we get there,” I say, and we both get quiet while we plot a course.
 
Chapter 5: Logan
1

Sadie leans over and kisses me gently, calming my racing heart a great deal. I should not have expected our trip to have completed without issue. Although, in fairness, I did not expect the crazies to be out this soon. Good grief, what is wrong with people? I know deep down that it’s only going to get worse with time. What little bit is left of human nature will soon be overrun by more primal tendencies. I still don’t have a clue as to what’s going on, but the outlook is getting worse, not better.
“We are going to make it Logan,” Sadie states confidently.
“It’s only a few more miles to the cave, we can walk if we have to. It might actually be safer,” she continues.
“That’s true, although I was really hoping to get us underground as quickly as possible. And if we walk, we won’t be able to carry nearly as many supplies,” I replied reluctantly.
I try the engine one more time. It doesn’t start, but it sounds really close to doing so. I try once more, and it roars to life. I smile uncontrollably and give her a kiss this time, much more passionately.
I drive us back to the road and instead of continuing the way we were going. I take us back the way we came. I know a few back roads that we can use to get to the cave instead. I’m sure these gently used roads will be much safer considering. 
 
2


While we drive, I try to work out in my head what is happening. The news networks, before they went off the air, were saying that an object had moved between the Earth and the sun blocking it out. They stated that the government had confidence that the entity would continue on its course in a matter of days and wasn’t a real threat to the planet. The important thing, according to them, was to stay indoors and ride it out. They said that it would get frigid before the object moved and sunlight could return. 
This explanation just doesn’t make a hell of a lot of sense to me. For one, it just doesn’t sound plausible that an object would hover in front of the sun, or that it could even get close enough to it without being burned up. Second, and more importantly, I was outside when the sun went out. It didn’t gradually go out. It was gone in a flash. As if it had merely disappeared.
I am wrestling with these thoughts, and I don’t even hear the shot ring out. My first notification of it is when my front right tire bursts and the Jeep shakes violently. I try to keep speed, but it’s no good. I will have to stop.
I start to yell at Sadie to get down, but she already is. She is also reaching beside her seat. To my surprise, she pulls out my survival knife. I had intended to get it out when we stopped before, but I got lost in the moment and forgot. Not that it will do us much good against a rifle, but it's something. I go to reach for it, and she shakes her head.
“I will keep this for now. The Jeep is your weapon,” she says willfully.
I nod in understanding. I slow and ultimately stop the vehicle. We both scoot down in our seat where I can barely see above the window. I keep looking up into each mirror, well the ones that are left anyway, scanning for the assailant. So far, he hasn’t produced himself. I say he, although I guess that sexist. It could just as quickly be a female attacker. Insanity knows no sex, color, or creed. I smile at my own cynicism when I first notice a shadowed figure moving down the tree line. I move to shift to reverse to be ready but stop at the last moment. That will cause my backup lights to come on, and that will not do.
He has the weapon raised. It is a man after all or at least looks like one in the faint light of my tail lights. He appears as if he’s just waiting for a reason to fire. I’m surprised he hasn’t already. Maybe he thinks he’s already shot the driver and doesn’t want to take the chance of ruining whatever loot he may recover. Well, he’s in for a rude surprise if I get my way. I will flat run over his ass if I get the chance. I want to check on Sadie, but I cannot. I can’t take my eyes off of this guy. Not now.
He inches ever closer to the vehicle. He's smart, but he’s now within a foot or so of the car. I wait for him to move from the edge of the road to the back of the vehicle. At that very instance, I shift into reverse and floor the Jeep. It instantly makes contact with him, and I can feel his body being chewed up beneath it. I hear Sadie scream, hell I’m crying.
I let the Jeep roll back a few feet, and I can see the poor bastards mangled body lying in the road. Without a second thought, I slam it in first and hit him again. I back up and do it again. I’m going to drive over him once more when Sadie stays my hand.
“Enough Logan, I think he’s gone,” she says in a voice tinged with sorrow.
I nod my head in acknowledgment shaking sweat and tears free. It is cold as hell, even inside the Jeep with the heater on high, but I have found a way to sweat. It must be pure adrenaline.
I look behind me to make sure that no one else is coming up to the vehicle and see no one. I slowly get out and make my way to the guy. He is dead, sure enough, and his rifle is broken in two. Oh well, not like there would be anything to hunt if this keeps up anyway. I go get back in the Jeep and drive back to where he came from. Sure enough, I find a vehicle, a blue Ford F150. 
The keys are in it, and it has a half a tank of gas. More than enough to get us where we’re going. We quickly unload the Jeep and put everything inside the truck. My mind tries to reason that I need to hide the Jeep or this guy’s body. Words like murder and manslaughter attempt to rise in my mind. I just shake them off, words like that have no meaning anymore. Without saying a word to each other Sadie and I  get in the truck and head back out to the road.
 
Chapter 6: Dr. John Harvey
1

We ascertain that the R&D lab is one floor up, at ground level. I can feel my anxiety go through the roof. The thought of going to the main level fills me with an insidious dread. It is already cold as hell in here. I can’t imagine how bad it will be up there, and it’s only going to get worse. Mary is right, though; the lab is our best shot. How amazing would it be if they had something up there that we could use to survive, at least for a time? 
“Let’s get moving,” I stutter.
It is becoming harder to function by the minute. Fortunately, it isn’t much farther to the lab. We should know if it's our salvation or our doom in just a few moments. As we walk, I decide to find out a little more about Mary.
“So what kind of doctor are you?” I ask.
“Biologist. I have a ton of education, but little practical experience. This was my first position,” Mary offers.
A biologist could be very useful. I have absolutely zero fantasies that I can undo what has been done, but I could create, given enough time, a comfortable place below ground. I have equipment in this very building that could produce energy, hell I have a mini cloud operating out of my research department. From that power, we could generate heat and water. With a biologist, we could possibly grow some good as well, or maybe she could create a more resilient food source. I realize we’ve stopped, and Mary is staring at me.
“What?” I ask.
“You were babbling, and then you stopped,” she replies.
“Sorry, I just thought that with our separate disciplines that we might be able to eke out an existence of some sort,” I say.
A smile washes over her face. Somehow this makes her more beautiful. She’s not a beauty queen, not in the traditional sense anyway. She could probably even be called ugly if you are an asshole, but there is just something about her. Her long brown hair. Her firm, petite body. And that smile. Embarrassed, I notice that her smile has widened and it’s as if she can read my thoughts.
“John?” she asks, clearly enjoying this.
“Yes,” I reply.
“You are fascinatingly looking at me,” she provides.
“I’m sorry, Mary. I did not mean too. I will not do that anymore,” I reply wholly mortified.
“Please don’t stop John. I like the way it makes me feel,” she states with a coy smile.
I smile back, unable to say anything with a trace of intelligence. Without another word, we continue to walk through the corridor.
 
2

Before long, we find a stairwell and begin ascending the steps. It is indeed surprising that I can feel a marked difference in temperature with each step that I take. The small window in the door at the top of the stairs is frosted over. With some reservation, I grasp the knob and open the door.
I am immediately rewarded with a large sign indicating that we have arrived right outside of the laboratory. Sudden fear grips me. I have almost unlimited access to my part of this facility, but I probably couldn’t even gain access to a bathroom over here. Without realizing that I am moving, I start running toward the lab entrance. I have to see the locked door. I must set this right in my head if I can accept it and move on.
I find myself looking at two large doors with solid glass insets. I can see inside the lab. There is a ton of cool-looking stuff in there. I can also see a significant access panel to the right of the door. Immense and complete wretchedness overtakes me. We have made it to the gates of Eden only to be shut out right outside. What a cruel trick. I know without even trying that there is no way to break that glass. An RPG wouldn’t harm it.
As I stand here bathing in my own self-pity, I notice Mary’s small hand reach for the door, and she gently pushes it open.
3

Mary enters the room, and I can see amazement wash across her face. We each have our own discipline, and the stuff in this place is not it, but one cannot help having an admiration for it. Countless children have dreamed endless hours of space and the great beyond, and this is the result of all those dreams. There are space suits, rovers, a communication satellite, and many other things. The issue and the reasons for my resurgence in anxiety are that they are all staged behind a protective Plexiglas, which makes me think that they are only displays and not working prototypes.
“Okay,” Mary begins. “I believe that we should try to do a quick inventory, and look for some manuals or something that might help us learn to operate anything we find useful,” Mary says growing more confident by the minute. She is quickly becoming quite the survivor.
“Good plan, Mary,” I say, and get to work.
As I make my way to the back of the room, I come upon a computer terminal that has a ticker tape scrolling across it. The screen is labeled “Top Secret.” Generally, I would avert my eyes as I have the clearance, but not the need to know. However, in this case, I feel I have the need to know. Besides, those rules are gone. Before long, everything else will be too. My mouth opens in amazement as I begin to read the scrolling messages.
•	Mass Extinction Event – 99.93% of all surface life expected to be wiped out in the next seven to ten days.
•	The moon has left orbit and is moving steadily away. Radio contact with moon colony lost.
•	Naval ships were frozen at sea. Vessels crushed in the ice. Crews believed dead.
•	Submarines either frozen or trapped beneath the ice. Radio contact lost with most of the fleet.
•	President is in a secure location and in communication with the Pentagon.
•	Pentagon fully staffed and attempting to gain control of the situation.
“My God,” I gasp.
Mary makes her way over to me, and I can see the color drain from her face as she reads the messages. It’s not like we didn’t know, or couldn’t have predicted that this would happen, but still. Billions of people dead. It's unimaginable. How many billions have you killed Dr. Harvey?
I find a nearby chair and collapse on it.
Mary rushes over. She is such a great person. I wonder if she knows what kind of monster she’s been paired with. I say pair because, if there is anyone else in this facility, we haven’t encountered them yet. It is a large facility, though so who knows.
“I know it’s bad news, John, terrible in fact, but we can’t just give up, and we should hope that those people will do the same,” Mary confides.
“It’s not that Mary,” I begin and realize that I’m about to tell her everything. I can’t continue lying to the only other person that I am positive is still alive. It's more than that, though, she deserves to know. She will probably not want to stay near me once she does, or if she does, it will be begrudgingly, but I have to come clean. I don’t want to die a fraud. I walk into a small room, it looks like a conference room. I call Mary over, and after she enters, I close the door and motion to an empty chair. It is warmer in here than the surrounding room. A faint warm air is emanating from a panel near the floor. 
“Please sit Mary. I have a few things I want to explain to you,” I say patting the chair next to me. She sits obediently, and I relay my tale.
I spare not a single detail, and there are a few times where I’m sure that she’ll interrupt me, but she doesn’t. When I finish, she is looking at me, intently. I’m quite sure she is deciding my fate at this very moment. Or she could be trying to process how she has been sitting next to the world’s most efficient mass murderer. After a very long pause, four or five minutes at least she begins to speak.
“You do share the blame in this John,” she begins.
Boy, do I ever. Now I am become death. Why didn’t I pay heed to this quote? Why does humanity necessitate that we repeat mistakes until we march ourselves into oblivion? Well, I believe I have ended that cycle. It does not appear that mankind will have an opportunity to repeat this one. With effort, I drag myself out of a soup of self-loathing when she continues.
“But the blame is not yours alone. Countless people worked years on these projects John, and not just any people, the world’s most intelligent. You may have begun this John, but you at most only hastened something that someone else would have stumbled on eventually anyway. I won’t misguide you. There was a moment, although brief when I considered trying to do bitter harm to you for this event, which has most likely wiped out everyone I have ever known. In the end, I am a scientist at heart, so I know how easy it is to think you are correct when you are on the verge of a cataclysmic failure. I am also familiar with your work. You have done a great deal over the years to ease the pain and suffering of the entire world. I’m quite sure your technology narrowly averted another war in the middle east. This event, of course, makes that irrelevant, but it sheds light on your nature. You are a decent person, who just helped humanity make a dreadful mistake,” she finishes squeezing my shoulder a touch.
  She is wrong, of course, it is my fault, but I am grateful nonetheless.
“Thank you, Mary. I carry a heavy burden for what I have done, and I’m sure I will take it with me henceforward, however, long that is, but you have done me a great service with your kindness and compassion. I will not forget it,” I say and gently touch her wrist.
“Let's see what we can find of use in here,” I say after a few moments.
 
4

A short time later, our inventory is complete. We found half a dozen MIT Bio Suits. I had no idea that such an item existed, and these are just prototypes, but the white paper on it is absolutely phenomenal. These in and of themselves are a little salvation, but we found so much more. 
In a vehicle which looks like an ugly child born of a marriage between a semi and an RV, we found what has been named a Mobile Colonization Unit (MCU). We’re still not entirely sure what it does, Mary is camped out in the conference room reading a manual now, but it could help us plan our survival.
Inside the MCU, we found a container that looked very similar to a safe, but it was much thinner. We are not sure if there is actually anything inside it, but if the inventory sheet on the outside is any guide, it is stocked with seeds of hundreds of different plants. 
I grab a manual on the MCU, and I am lost in thought when Mary breaks the silence.
“This thing has a miniature molten salt cooled reactor! That is the noise we have been hearing. The whooshing sound. I thought it was the wind outside, but this thing has to cool even when it’s not on. It is powered by a miniaturized nuke!” she almost screams. The prospect alarms me, to be honest, but her excitement is infectious. I grin and nod my agreement.
“It also says that it can desalinate water or pump from a lake, but it cannot drill for it. That is a phase II requirement, and this is undoubtedly a Phase I prototype. This version can provide a habitat for up to fifty people. It has food stores for twelve months, and the seeds are for continued viability. The list just keeps going. It has repair kits. A terrain exploration unit, which just looks like a glorified ATV, and of course, it can scrub oxygen for us to breathe,” we are saved John she screams jumping up and down. 
She wraps me in her arms and kisses me squarely on the mouth. I know this is only a result of finding this fantastic vehicle, but still. I can taste the exhaustion on her. I can feel her breasts against my chest. It is sensuous, and I can feel myself getting aroused despite my misgivings. I think she is right to be excited, considered the last few days this is a godsend, but we are in Colorado. We need a large body of water, either the ocean or a large lake. I have a feeling that once this thing is set up that it is not designed to be moved so, we either have to get to the Pacific Ocean or one of the great lakes. The sea seems more reasonable. Even if we can stay warm in the MCU, and I have no doubt we can. There is snow on the ground, and it will most likely never leave. Once we're out of Colorado, the roads, for the most part, should be snow-free, but getting out of Colorado will be a challenge.
“Let’s figure out how to work this thing, Mary. I don’t know about you, but I could do without this cold,” I say.
She nods her head in agreement and opens the manual looking for instructions.
 
Chapter 7: Logan
1

Shattering all of my expectations, the remaining ride to the lake is uneventful. I feel relief that I haven’t felt since this ordeal started as the F150’s headlights shine on the familiar landscape of the cave. In preparation, I back the truck up to the edge of the water to make it easier to unload.
“You can wait in the car while I dump everything if you want. If this dashboard thermometer is correct, its negative twenty-five out there,” I tell Sadie.
“No, we need to hurry,” she says quickly, and of course, we do.
We hurriedly unload everything and dress in our diving suits. We find a fishing pole and tackle box in the truck bed. We’ll take the pole with us, and I shove some of the tackle inside one of my waterproof bags. We dress using the vehicle’s lights for illumination. I have seen Sadie naked so many times, but I am still mesmerized by her body. It’s no wonder that she stays in shape as active as she is, but my word. I can trace the curve of her back in the light. Her breasts are not huge, but seem, at least to me, to be just the right size. That long Auburn hair. Even her nose. She sees me enjoying the sight of her and smiles.
“Like what you see, do you?” she asks playfully.
“I do my dear indeed,” I smile back.
My happiness is sucked out of me when I make my way back to the back of the truck. The lake is frozen solid. Of course, it is. It was negative twenty-five a few minutes ago and probably much colder now. I am shivering by the truck trying to figure out what to do.
“Get the gear back over there. I am going to drive the truck out in it. It should breakthrough, and then we can hurry into the water,” I say as I formulate a plan.
She does as I ask, and I turn the truck around. It takes more than a little bit of willpower to drive the vehicle out on the ice. The front wheels hit, but the ice holds. I continue operating until the whole truck is now on the ice. I can see Sadie in the rearview, a worried look on her face.
I try to rock the truck back and forth to get the ice to give. I’m trying to stay near the shore for apparent reasons. After a few tries, I get a little careless and go farther out on the ice than I have been. When I shift into reverse, I can hear the crack I’ve been waiting for. I reach for the handle to bail out. Before I can even pull on it, the front of the truck has sunk below the ice. It’s as if the ice only broke where the engine is, and the bed is still in the air forcing the cab down. I try, and as expected, I can’t get the door open. I reach to roll the window down, and it moves about four inches before I hear a short, and the truck dies. Total darkness surrounds me.
The water is frigid as it fills the cab. Chunks of ice pelt me in the face as I reach for the glass intent on breaking it. I can feel my strength leaving me. Even in my suit, the frigid water is putting me to sleep. My eyes close once, twice. I force them open. I am pulling on the glass, but I don’t have the strength to break it. I no longer have the energy for anything. 
I can’t hold my breath much longer. I know what that means, and I’m somehow okay with it. 
 
2

I awake on the shore. Sadie is over me, soaking wet and crying.
“Come on, Logan. We have to go now. It is freezing again,” she cries.
I seize on these words. I understand what they mean, and I’m dizzily up on my feet at once.
“We don’t have time for everything. The two bags in the front are the most important. Let’s grab one each. If there is time then we’ll come back for the rest,” I say to Sadie as I’m moving to the water’s edge.
We both put our rebreathers on and grab a bag. It turns out that I can grip another small bag and do so on the way in the water.
When I am fifteen or twenty feet underwater, I look back up, and I can clearly see the ice crystallizing above us. I know the way to the cavern we are looking for, but I am disoriented by the near-death experience. I start heading out, and I feel a slight tug. I turn to see Sadie pointing the other way. I nod my head, and she takes off. What would I do without her? 
3

Sadie weaves her way around rocks and deeper into the lake. We have only been to this cavern once. It is a strange place, oddly warm, and it is illuminated by algae, at least I think its algae. I have always intended to research and find out precisely what it is, but like everything else, I never got around to it.
I don’t remember it being quite this far, but I’m probably not the best judge at the moment. I’m still a little hazy from the truck incident. 
After a few minutes, we surface and set on the bank in the big cavern. The air is breathable but stale. It has a strange smell as well, not bad necessarily, just foreign. I’m not sure if it’s healthy or not, but it’s not like we have any options. 
I look over at Sadie as she is wringing out her hair.
“I’m going to try to go back for the other bag,” I say weakly to her.
“No Logan, just let it go honey. We’ll make do,” she replies.
“I have to go back Sadie if I don’t, and then we need something I couldn’t forgive myself,” I say a little more forcefully than I intend.
“Okay, please be careful,” she says sodden in apprehension.
“I will Sadie,” I say more confidentially than I feel.
 
4

I find myself bumping up against a shelf of ice. I’m a great deal more disoriented than I should be. I have a bag in each hand, and I know that I need to get back to the cave, but I can’t seem to plot a path. I’ve spent countless hours in these waters and never had this level of confusion. It must be the coldness of the water. It has to be.
With this in mind, I go as deep as I can, attempting to find warmer water. I set at the bottom of the lake for a few minutes, collecting my thoughts. Eventually, more coherent thought enters my head, and I know where I need to go. With a sudden sense of urgency now that I have my wits back, I swim toward the corner of the lake where the passageway I need is.
When I arrive, to my dismay, the ice has reached the tunnel entrance. I swim to the bottom of the lake looking for rock, anything to break through the ice. I drop the bags and grab a large rock. I slam the rock forcefully several times into the ice to no avail. It is not breaking.
I take a moment to gather in my surroundings. The water is getting steadily colder. I can visibly see the ice encroaching all around me. I have managed to get myself into one hell of a fix, and all over two bags. I don’t even know what they have in them at this point.
My thoughts go to Sadie, my poor sweet Sadie all alone. She deserved better. I should have listened to her and stayed in the cave. At least I won’t have long to kick myself. 
As I reach the lowest point in my entire life, I feel a tug on my shoulder. I turn around and see Sadie right in front of me. My joy at seeing her is quickly replaced with profound sorrow. She has come looking for me and will now share my fate.
Before I can vocalize my frustration, she motions for me to follow. I pick up the bags and do so without question. She leads me away from the tunnel entrance and further down into the lake. I am curious where she is taking me, but I do not interfere as she clearly knows more about what she is doing than I do. So much for the macho guy saving his girl. I would have been dead several times already if it wasn’t for this majestic angel swimming before me. 
After a few minutes more we surface in a cave not dissimilar from the one I left her in a lifetime ago.
 
Chapter 8
1: Tanya Robinson, Beaver, Utah

As I look out my living room window, I can see nothing but eternal darkness. The electricity went out days ago. I shine my flashlight through the window at the thermometer. It reads negative seventy-five. The indoor thermometer reads thirty-five. We have wall mounted natural gas heaters throughout the house, and I have every one of them on high, the bill be damned. Jared didn’t go to work today. It wouldn’t have done any good. A factory can’t function without electricity. 
Jared and Sam, our daughter, are coiled up on the floor in front of the heater fast asleep. Jared is trying not to let his fear show, but he’s afraid. He’d be a fool not to be. Something is fundamentally wrong, we just don’t know what. We can’t leave the house. Our old car won’t start in this weather. We don’t have anywhere to go anyway. The only bright side is that the typical sounds of the city are missing. No gunshots, at least not for a while.
I’m scared to death, petrified actually, that the gas will shut off like the electricity did. I can only imagine how quickly this house will fill with freezing air if that happens.
I glance over at my sleeping family and my heart brakes. I tried hours ago to contract emergency services to see if the city was offering any advice for shelters or anything like that, but the phone was dead. I’ve never known of a storm knocking out landlines.
 
2: Mark Bevis, New York City

I scarcely got back into the city before all air traffic stopped. This world just gets stranger and stranger. My flight was circling the airport waiting our turn to land, and just as we start our descent, the sun merely winks out. It was inexplicable, to say the very least.
I end up walking home, it's impossible to find a cab tonight. Gary has a warm bowl of soup waiting when I get there. He is such a great guy. A few minutes after I arrive the electricity flickers a few times and then goes off for good.
Gary and I cuddle on the couch until around four a.m. It has become icy with the electric heat off. I check the thermostat, and it says twenty-two degrees. Burr.
I grab my phone and try to get some sort of update on what’s going on. Everything I open just spins and spins. This fills me with dread for some reason. I expected the anomaly from yesterday to be explained, and everything to be righted with the rise of the sun this morning. I’m starting to think I may never see that. Unable to stop myself, compelled actually, I recheck the thermostat. The temperature has fallen another four degrees in less than five minutes.
My God. 
 
3: Bryan Reynolds, Birmingham, Alabama

I knew there was a chance that my leave would get cut short, but I never imagined anything like this. I got a call less than fifteen minutes after, “The Event,” that’s what the news is calling it anyway, to report back to Fort Hood. 
Luckily my truck was full of gas, but I’ve been on I20 now for a couple of hours, and I have yet to see a single gas station open. There is no way in hell I’m going to make it back to central Texas on one tank of gas. It’s getting cold as hell out there too.
I’m jerked out of my thoughts by this guy up ahead on the road. He’s just standing in the middle of the street. Maybe he needs a ride? I slow to a stop to see what he needs.
I roll my window down as I approach him. It’s too cold for him to be out in this.
“Hey, buddy, everything okay?” I ask.
I see the knife, albeit a second too late as the son of a bitch slashes the side of my face. Without thinking, I reach beside my seat and grab my 9mm Glock 34 and shoot him square between the eyes. Blood and brain matter explode in my face. He falls immediately to the ground.
“What the fuck?” I scream as I’m getting out of my truck.
I try to call the police, but I’m not getting a signal. I grab a towel out of my bag and wipe this poor bastard’s brains off of me. What the fuck?
Without other options I get back in my truck, I’m going to try to find the local police station.
 
Chapter 9: Dr. John Harvey
1

It only takes Mary and me about forty-five minutes to find the correct manual and learn enough to feel sufficiently confident to drive the MCU. It takes us another two hours to gain entry to it.
After locating the correct manual and a few quick conversations, we start loading up the back of the MCU. We load the Bio Suits, a few chairs, and anything else nearby that we think might be useful. The MCU has everything we need, supposedly, but it never hurts to have a little extra. 
With everything loaded, we make our way to the cabin of this magnificent beast. There are no doors. We go back into the central cargo area, and again are unable to find any entries. 
“How the hell do we get in this thing?” I ask.
This brings up another problem. We stupidly packed all the manuals in the back of the MCU. We will need these when/if we get where we are going. I hastily uncovered them and set them near the front tracks. Another fifteen minutes goes by before Mary crawls in the space between the rails and locates a hatch underneath. I can hear her opening the hatch from where I am and make my way over to her.
 
2

The cabin has seating for three. I start to head for the driver’s seat, but Mary beats me to it.
“I think I’d like to take a try if it’s all the same to you?” she asks.
“It’s all the same to me,” I say and sit in the seat on the other side of the cab.
This thing is amazing. It has dense glass windows where you would expect them to be, but it also has what appears to be a forty or so inch monitor in the console that shows all four sides at once. 
Mary starts powering everything up from memory. She is a quick study. I watch mesmerized as she goes through the startup sequence. I’m trying to keep up with her in my head, but I’ve already missed a few steps that she remembered.
“Can you get the bay door, John,” she asks.
The door, of course. I open the hatch and crawl back out from underneath the beast. There are four bay doors adjacent to each other. I press the green button to raise the first bay door, and my expectations are met. Nothing happens. What to do? What to do? I look around and spot a forklift parked near the other side of the warehouse. I run over to it and fire it up.
I spend ten minutes or so trying to get the blades underneath the door. I have zero success. Out of frustration, I back up and go full speed into it with the tines about two feet high. I succeed in punching a hole in the door and getting the lift stuck. It will not lift the door. 
Another agonizing few minutes later, I get the lift free and drive it back to the other side of the warehouse. I press the pedal and get it going as fast as it will go. I hit the door at top speed. I’m not sure how fast that is, but it connects to the door and pushes through. I am thrown violently from the seat and slam into the concrete floor. I can hear my arm break as I land.
My first sensation isn’t the pain from my newly broken arm. It is cold. Desperate cold. I have to get inside the MCU. I see Mary’s feet below the beast, and I yell for her to get back in. I’m holding my arm as best as I can, and it hurts like a bitch, but I’m pretty sure I’ll die out here in a matter of minutes if I don’t seek shelter.
Back inside the MCU, I grasp the heater knob with my unspoiled hand, the only control that has any semblance of normalcy, and turn it to high. Mary slowly, but confidentially drives us out of the warehouse.
 
3

There are a few inches of snow on the ground, but the beast plows through it nicely. I can see the first flakes of new snow falling. As the temperature drops, this will only get worse.
We are rapidly coming upon a gate to the facility. Mary doesn’t even attempt to slow down. She drives right through it, knocking the gate wide open. Why didn’t you just ask her to do that with the bay door doctor? 
I could not have been more wrong with my initial impression of her. She was built for this. I can totally see her now with her hair let down, a halter top on and too-short shorts. Maybe even riding in my convertible next to me.
“Ow!” I exclaim, my pain bringing me out of this beautiful fantasy.
“What’s wrong, John?” Mary asks without taking her eyes off the road.
“I think I broke my arm back there,” I say gauging her facial expression. I am rewarded with a look of grief. It makes the pain a little more bearable.
“I should stop and help you sling it,” she begins before I cut her off.
“No, no, stay the course. I can take care of it for now. We have got to wherever we’re going as quickly as we can. This snow that we’re seeing is only going to get worse, much worse,” I say trying to mask the dread I feel.
I can tell that I have concealed it poorly by her reply.
“How bad will it get?” she asks hopefully.
I look at her for a long minute. It will do no good to lie to her. She will find out for herself soon enough. Maybe the truth ahead of time will allow her mind a little time to adjust.
“As the temperature drops, the gasses in our atmosphere will begin to freeze. Once this starts, the gas will begin snowing down on the earth. Eventually, they will all freeze and fall. We will no longer have the protection from radiation that the atmosphere provides. We will cease to be able to breathe on the surface as there will be nothing to breathe. And the accumulation of snow from the frozen gasses is estimated to be about one hundred meters,” I said remorsefully.
“One hundred meters of snow?” she asks with shock evident on her face.
“Yes, give or take a few meters. That is what is estimated,” I reply.
Mary turns green. It looks like she’s going to be sick. I find a small pale behind her seat and quickly give it to her. She vomits violently into it as the beast rolls to a stop.
“I can’t believe this. I’ve told myself that we can sustain life, and I really think we can, but I haven’t come to grip with not being able to breathe on the surface. No more rolling hills of grass. No more forests. No more anything. It just makes me so sad,” she murmurs. She is crying uncontrollably now.
I unbuckle my seatbelt and move to the seat beside her. I gingerly wrapped my good arm around her. I want to comfort her, but I don’t know-how. How could I? it doesn’t help that she’s fifteen years or so younger than me either. I pat her on the back while we are embracing. She moves her face into the crook of my neck, and I can feel the tears streaming off of her face. In a few minutes, her sobbing subsides, and she looks up at me and directly into my eyes. I’ve never had anyone stare so intensely into my soul. I look into her eyes as well. I am unable to look away. She slowly moves her mouth to mine until our lips touch. There isn’t even a faint hint of the sickness she experienced a few moments ago. Her eyes finally close. I can see a single tear stream down her cheek right before I close my eyes and receive the most passionate kiss I have ever known.
Her mouth moves back to my neck and up to my ear. I can hear her passion in every breath. She kisses me lightly all along the underside of my chin, making her way to my chest. My desire is reaching heights it has never neared. She brushes against my broken arm, but it feels far away. For the first time in life, I am running a real risk of climax before I ever take off a single piece of clothing. She’s kissing me wildly now, all over my body. Her hands wander and are discovering new things by the second. I want to reciprocate, but I am unable to do so. I am her prisoner and cannot do anything until she stops her pleasure-filled exploration of my body.
 
4

A loud clamor brings me out of my passion and back to the troubled world we now inhabit. Inexplicably, chunks of ice are falling from the sky. This doesn’t match any model that I have ever been made aware of. For not the first time it seems the scientific community has been wrong.
“We have to go now, Mary. We may not have as much time as we had hoped,” I say, jumping back into my seat.
Mary does the same and pushes the throttle to max. The beast starts slowly and so far has reached a maximum of seventeen miles per hour, but we are underway.
“I wish I could google and see how far it is to the ocean,” I offer to break the silence.
Once again Mary surprises me, “It’s about eight to ten hours on I70 to I15. It’s about the same from where we get on I15 to San Diego. I have, or had anyway, friends out there, and I’ve made the drive a few times,” she says absently.
I quickly do the math in my head.
“So at fifteen miles per hour, driving twenty-four hours a day, it’ll take us about three and a half days,” I say.
“Do you think we have that much time?” she asks.
“No, I don’t,” I reply, honestly.
She nods, understanding.
 
Chapter 10: Logan
1

“Damn you, Logan! What the fuck were you thinking?” Sadie rages at me.
I have never seen her this furious. I don’t think I’ve ever seen her really mad, but she is absolutely livid. I start to speak, and she shuts me up with a hand to my mouth.
“Did you once consider me? Did you think about how I would feel entombed all alone down here? Did you contemplate how I would feel after the world crumbled, and you, the love of my life dies going after a fucking bag? Did you think of anything, you big stupid, beautiful man?” she screams, crying the last as she wraps me in a forceful hug.
I feel like absolute shit, and rightfully so. I can try to tell myself that I was doing what’s best for Sadie, and maybe on some level I was, but putting myself in a position to leave her alone is not going to help anyone.
“I’m sorry, Sadie, I was wrong. I won’t leave your side again unless you think it’s a good idea,” I offer.
“Then you’ll never leave,” she replies with a faint smile.
“Well, I went after two more bags and lost the three we already had. The cave as well, I’m such an ass sometimes,” I mutter.
“We didn’t lose anything, Logan. The pool of water in the other cave began freezing not long after you left. I started freaking out and tried to break it. It was no good, and I knew if it was freezing there that it had to be freezing further up in the tunnel. So I frantically started looking for a way out. Luckily for you, and me, I found one,” she states with pride shining through in her smile.
“You are amazing Sadie. I could not possibly love you more,” I say.
“Good, come on. Let's get back to our cave. I’m getting hungry and in need of a nap.
Sadie turns a small flashlight on, although the algae are so bright it's probably not necessary and lead us into an adjoining cave. She proceeds as if she’s lived here her whole life. Like it's her home. And I guess that it is.
 
2

I can tell by the state of our camp or new home I should say that Sadie had been quite busy up until the ice began to freeze over. She has our bed made, and our supplies are neatly stacked against one cave wall. She has even constructed us a couple of makeshift chairs out of some rocks she found. They don’t look very comfortable, though.
The algae are neon blue. It’s a little harsh at first, but I’m quickly growing used to it. I keep kicking myself for not reading up on it more. I know that some algae produce oxygen as a byproduct, but I also thought that they needed to have sunlight to survive. There is obviously no sunlight down here. I should have asked many more questions. How did the oxygen get into this cavern? That would probably be useful information. Can we eat any of these plants? That too would have been helpful.
I have little doubt that coming here was a good idea. Everything is going wrong on the surface. I wish we could have received an honest answer from the government before everything went silent. At least we would know. I guess in the end, it doesn’t really matter. Sadie and I have some time anyway. This cave system is massive, so it should hold a decent amount of oxygen. One thing I do know is that on top of this rock I’m sitting under is more water, so there are no worries about it being airtight. The last radio broadcast I was able to catch was of some scientist saying that when the temperature drops to a certain point, sadly don’t remember what that was, that all bets were off as far as current scientific understanding goes. That prospect makes being sealed in down here, not that bad.
As I look over at Sadie, curled up in our covers and resting peacefully, I can’t help, but be optimistic about tomorrow. I don’t know what it's going to take to survive down here, but I have a lot of ideas, and I intend to get started on some of them as soon as I get a little rest.
 
Chapter 11: Dr. John Harvey
1

“Mary. Mary, wake up,” I say as I reach over and gently shake her.
She rouses slowly, and a smile touches the corners of my lips.
“What’s happening John?” she asks, apparently still sleeping.
“We just passed through Cove Fort, and we are now on I15 headed to San Diego,” I say as casually as I can.
Her eyelids fly open comically like a cartoon character from the early nineteen fifties. I can’t help but laugh. She clearly knows why I’m laughing and shoots me a warning look. A very playful warning look.
“So we’re halfway there, huh. What’s the temperature down to?” Mary inquires.
“We are currently at negative one fifteen,” I reply.
“My goodness, I can’t imagine what that feels like, and I don’t want to. I think I should use the time we have to read up on the MCU. Where did you put the crate of manuals?” she asks.
As soon as the question is out of her mouth, I can feel anxiety wash over me. I believe I am having my first ever panic attack. I foolishly slam my broken arm on the dash.
“Fuck! Fuck!” I scream. The first expletive is for the arm; the second one is for the books.
“I left the damned manuals beside the track. When I broke my cursed arm, I forgot all about them,” I say brooding.
“Shit,” she says plainly not used to using the word.
“It’s okay, John. It can’t be helped now. We will figure it out. How complicated can it be?” she asks.
I don’t tell her how ridiculous this comment is, but apparently, my eyes betray me.
“Okay, so it is probably really danged complicated, but we’ll still figure it out. At least it should be in English, well mostly in English anyway,” she says, trailing off.
Yes, it should at least be partially in English I think as my eyes widen on the obstruction up ahead. I let the MCU roll to a stop. Snow flurries are dancing around the wreckage. I don’t like the look of this. We can’t get around it. It looks like two semis have collided with a small passenger van between them. I don’t trust driving this thing on the grass shoulder unless I absolutely have to.
“We passed an exit less than a mile back. Do you know how to get this thing in reverse?” I ask Mary while I look around the console. 
She moves to the middle seat and leans over. Her arm rests against my leg as she pushes a rather large button on the left side of the panel. Why is this arousing? I steal a glance down her shirt before she pulls her arm back. My God, she is not wearing a bra. I’m starting to behave like a teenager instead of a man charging headlong into forty. She turns toward me as she’s pulling back. A knowing look in her eyes, a smile on her lips.
“There you go, Dr. Harvey,” she says wearing that seductive little smile I am growing quite fond of.
I used the screen to slowly, very slowly, back us up to the previous exit. Turns out it was much farther than I had thought. Nearly an hour later, I stop and read the sign for the exit ramp. The exit is for Highway 357. It will take us into downtown Beaver, Utah.
 
2

The highway is speckled with farms until we start to enter the city proper. My nerves are on edge. The beast is too broad for the two-lane road. I dodge, as best as I can, mailboxes and trash cans, but I don’t do a superb job of it. Seeing all of these houses is actually bringing this tragedy home to me. For some reason, it is much easier for me to accept the abstract death of several million people rather than the individual lives in each one of these houses. The devastation I’ve wrought, and yet I stand to be one of the only few that might get to survive this disaster, at least for a time. It is tragically, unfair, and unjust.
Tears stream down my cheeks at the futility of it all. Each life, tiny on the grand scale, but of great importance to those around it, snuffed out like a spent candle. All because of a group of people that these poor souls likely didn't even know of decided to do an experiment. If there is a netherworld, my colleagues and I will own a disproportionate portion of it.
A bright light, brighter than anything I’ve seen is days is up ahead. A small house is on fire. As I drive by, I, notice a woman and a small child standing in front of it shivering and crying. They are screaming something at the house. I drive a little past the house and stop the beast.
“What is that bright light?” Mary asks. She was dozing again.
“It’s a house fire. There is a small family out front. I have to see if I can help them. Watch for me. If anything funny happens, just drive on,” I say and exit through the hatch.
 
3

The cold hits me like a ton of bricks. I’m not wearing a jacket of any sort, not that it would do much good. These poor people, my God. I run as best I can to the woman. I start to ask her if she’s okay, but that would be a useless question. I can tell by the look in her eyes that she is not okay. Her eyes are perceptive, and they know the end is near. She is cradling a small girl, desperately trying to keep her warm. She is failing at this task. There is no warmth to be had out here, even this close to the inferno.
“Is there anyone else inside?” I ask the woman, apparently in shock.
“My husband,” she replies faintly.
I run towards the entrance and scale the steps.
“Don’t. He’s gone, no way he could still be alive,” she says despondently.
“Get in our vehicle. It’s warm in there. We have to get this child out of the cold,” I say.
She provides no resistance and seems to only vaguely understand what I’m saying. I help her under the vehicle, and Mary is standing there to help her into the hatch. As I turn to get one final glance of the conflagration, I see a man standing at the edge of the lawn. I have an interior skirmish going on. I want to help this person. I want to help as many individuals as I can, but the beast can only hold three people. Fully setup it is only rated for fifty. I make to turn, to get back into the vehicle without a word, but my feet won’t move. My heart won’t let them. Foolishly, I begin to speak.
“We think we have a way to endure this. Maybe not forever, but for quite a while. We will have room for about fifty people. If you want to gather whoever you can from this small town, we will be trying to get to the mouth of the San Diego River. A place called Robb Field. We will take on as many as we can. My advice, if you choose to follow us, is to get there in the next twenty-four hours. Sooner if you’re able. Time is short, just how short I have no idea,” I stutter to the man as loudly as I can.
The man nods in understanding, stands still for a moment longer, and then is gone into the darkness. I hastily make my way back into the beast. I could have been out there no more than a couple of minutes, and I’m already having trouble speaking. My extremities feel ice-covered and alien.
 
Chapter 12
1: Bryan Reynolds, Birmingham, Alabama

I found a police station after I killed that guy. The place was a ghost town. I feel a little sad about killing him, I’m sure he was just desperate, but the bastard cut my face. I would have given him a ride, helped him any way I could. Maybe he wanted to die? If he did, I wish he would have just asked. I’ve abandoned the search for the police and continued on my journey to Fort Hood.
I haven’t been able to find a single gas station open, but I have taken to siphoning gas out of parked vehicles. Desperate times call for drastic measures. It’s cold, damn cold, and I don’t like my prospects if I run out of gas. Hell, I don’t want them if I had all the gas in the world. I think we’re fucked on a global scale. It's nine o’clock in the morning, the sun should be up, but it’s not. That’s a pretty big damn deal I think.
I just passed through Tyler, Texas, almost there. The roads are eerily quiet, and snow is falling. Snow in Texas, I know it happens, but still. I bet I’ve passed less than a dozen cars on my trek west. Seems strangely peculiar that not even my comrades are mobilized. I would have expected to see the National Guard out everywhere, helping communities. Maybe there are too many communities in need and too few resources. That seems very likely.
I’m not afraid of dying, everyone does it, but I’m not looking forward to it either. The manner of death is vital as well. I do have a bit of a moral dilemma. To put it bluntly, I do not want to freeze to death, period. That means, if the time comes, I should use my sidearm to take myself on out of this world. Therein lies my dilemma. I have a deeply embedded self-preservation mindset. I can’t just off myself.
Hopefully, when I get back to post, I will see that the Army has formulated a response, and all is well. I’m not optimistic, though. I think its organizational ability and equipment will help it hang on a little longer, but I don’t believe that we're coming back from this.
 
2: Mark Bevis, New York City

The cold has become intolerable. Gary is lying next to me; his breathing is very shallow. We abandoned our apartment hours ago and moved to the center of the apartment complex. Others have joined us. We are all lying next to each other, trying to stay one. I have come to accept that it’s a futile effort. I don’t know what the temperature is now, but it is colder than anything I have ever experience.
Snow is falling worryingly outside and has been for some time. I assume it’s still falling. The last flashlight we had that a guy from the fifth floor brought died a little while ago. Everyone’s smartphone is dead, as well. We are trapped in utter darkness, cold darkness.
It has become increasingly harder to breathe. I move my arm to shake Gary. It has become all but impossible to move. With great effort, I place my hand against his chest. I wait for the rise and fall. I cannot feel it. His haggard breathing has ceased. My sweet Gary is dead. There is no sadness. I will be with him again very soon.
I can feel myself slipping into oblivion. I am experiencing the very last moments of my life. The pain is gone or dulled to the point that I don’t notice it. My mind takes me back to the spring that Gary and I met. It was such a warm sunny day. That park was majestic.
 
Chapter 13: Lieutenant Commander Jenkins
1

There has been no contact with Washington in the last forty-eight hours. We should have been able to raise another vessel or naval station by now. We have received nil communication. We haven’t even heard any civilian chatter; the planet seems silent.
The commander has tasked me with producing a list of options. With these, he wants a thorough risk assessment for each. I have my list together, and I’ll perform my due diligence, but I already know the one he should pick, and it is at the top of my list. We should head for NCTS San Diego. It is close, and if we are going to be able to communicate with anyone, it should be them.
I haven’t actually taken the time to come to terms with myself over the events of the last few days. I’m pretty sure that my death is not on the horizon. Well, not imminent anyway, but I can’t shake the feeling that I am going to have to fundamentally change who I am to survive. 
I have always been physically fit, and that will come in useful. My intelligence will serve me well as will my decent looks, but I’m worried that things could get a little sideways on this boat if we’re not careful. People handle stress differently, and we haven’t been together as a crew long enough to form any real cohesive bonds. I know some of these sailors have served with each other over the years, so there will be pockets of loyalty. I’m just afraid of who they’ll be loyal to. 
I have briefed Commander Erickson regarding my fears. He believes they are mislaid. He has handpicked this crew, or so he says and knows their inner hearts. I think that is a fool’s errand, but I would never say that to his face. I have little doubt that someone is already stirring the pot. I’ve seen expressions that don’t register as overly vicious but are unsettling none the less. I will continue trying to counsel the Commander as best I can, but I will not be separated from my sidearm for the duration of this voyage.
 
2

I just finished a very long and unproductive meeting with Commander Erickson. How can he be so blind to the danger? Last night an Ensign was raped in the shower, not just raped, but repeatedly. One of the more disturbing parts is that it wasn’t only a few of the men. Some of the women participated as well. It’s as if they saw the young officer as some sort of trophy that they could take off the shelf. The commander thinks that it was an isolated incident, and the sailors involved will be punished. How do you punish them when you can’t even go to the surface? I guess we could shoot them out a torpedo shaft.
It’s not just them either, there are only six officers on the boat. The rest are enlisted. They seem to be banding together. With every passing hour, another sailor is disobeying an order. They are getting more open about it as well. I saw a situation last night where Commander Erickson ordered a sailor to do something, and the guy just shrugged it off and sat where he was. Nobody said anything. The commander just walked out.
 
Chapter 14: Logan
1

I awake with Sadie on top of me. She is smiling and kissing me playfully on the chest. I smile back, and she rewards me by reaching her slightly cold hand into my underwear. She leers at what she finds. My eyes close with the sensation. I feel immense warmth when I enter her. The heat that is the nectar of life. She slowly and sweetly makes love to me, and when I signal her that it’s time to stop, she just shakes her head and continues. My climax explodes into her, and I wonder, but only briefly, if it’s fair to bring a life into this dying world.
 
2

We nap for quite a while after our little encounter. When I awake, I notice that the cave looks a bit changed. I sit up swiftly and see, to my dismay, that the ice has impinged several feet into the cave. I promptly get up and check the entire area. The grotto that we are in is now cut off from all the rest. When we went to sleep, we had a frozen puddle on one side, and an unfrozen channel on the other. That tunnel leads to the more prominent cavern that Sadie brought us through when she rescued me. We are also now cut off from a substantial portion of this cavern. Shit, how did I not see that this could happen? How did the ice come upon the rock that rapidly?
Sadie rouses to me bashing a massive rock into the ice obstructing the tunnel. It is compacted, the stone I am using splinters against it. I look back at her when I hear her stir, unguarded terror in my eyes. She quickly comprehends the origin of my apprehension and stands speechless.
 
3

Several days have passed, and the ice has only encroached further into our grotto. I’ve stood by helpless to stop it. Sadie started getting sick a day ago, or maybe two. It’s tough to concentrate, and my head is killing me. Even the simplest tasks seem exhausting. Sadie has the same symptoms. We must have caught the flu or something before this mess started. Perfect timing, just like everything else. At least she’s sleeping peacefully. Her breathing is ragged and painful to watch. I should do something, but I can’t concentrate. 
I vomit uncontrollably between my feet. I should go lie down beside Sadie, but my vision is fuzzy and weird. Something is really not right. I crawl over to where she is. Panic seizes me. Her head is convulsed back. She has vomited and is choking on it. I frantically clear her throat and give her mouth to mouth. Dammit, I don’t know what the fuck I’m doing. 
Maybe it’s the air? Perhaps we have carbon dioxide poisoning or monoxide? Whatever the hell it is. I don’t know the difference. I have to get access to the other cave. An intense thought finds its way to the front of my mind through the fog. The Sterno, I can burn a hole in the ice and take us through it.
I viciously tear through our supplies trying to find the little cans, destroying all of Sadie’s hard work. I locate one and rush to the ice that leads to the main cavern. Dammit, no way to light it. I run back to the now disorganized pile of supplies and hunt for a pack of lighters. I eventually get one out of the package with a high amount of difficulty.
I light the wick and absently put the lighter into my pocket; it flickers but is evidently having trouble burning. It will never burn through the ice like that at any rate. I don’t have time for this shit. I grab the remaining Sterno cans and frantically open each one. I grab the comforter off the top of Sadie and throw it on the flame. It only smokes for a minute or two, then it roars to life. I throw anything else I can find nearby on the blaze. I can see the ice starting to melt. Even the algae are burning.
The cave is filling with smoke. Fuck, what the hell was I thinking? I start coughing irrepressibly. I kick at the inferno and fall through the ice. Before the last of consciousness can flee me, I leap to Sadie and grab her. Thank God she is tiny. I plunge with her into the abyss.
 
Chapter 15: Dr. John Harvey
1

“I’m Sam,” the little girl says to me as I’m settling back into the driver’s seat.
“That’s a lovely name,” I respond honestly.
“How old are you, Sam?” I inquire.
“I will be five in, how many days momma?” she asks.
“Nine days sweetheart,” Her mom responds stoically. You can tell it is taking her entire being to hold back the wellspring of tears that must inevitably flow.
I continue to converse with the young girl for quite a spell. She is undoubtedly brilliant. I take great care not to mention her father, I assume he was her father anyway, but I’m sure it will inevitably come up.
The volume of snow falling has tripled in the last hour. I am fearful that we are finally descending into that zone where the atmosphere will begin to freeze. The snowfall will only increase from this point on until it reaches the one hundred meters or so that is expected. I’m not sure how the beast will handle the additional accumulation. So far, there has not been a noticeable change in how it grips the road. There are about four inches, or so of buildup, I would say. It is not packed, so that helps as well.
It would be lovely, if not so disastrous. A winter wonderland to end all winter wonderlands. We have made good time thus far, all things considered, but my unease is mounting with every mile we get nearer to Las Vegas. It is the last major city before we get to California, and I think that circumstances have depreciated to the point that people will have grasped that there will be no recovery. With that comprehension, people will become desperate. This deafening, warm looking beast will be nothing less than a beacon for anyone who would want to do us harm.
