2

It's a little over an hour drive to the cave. So far, I've seen very few other cars on the road. I'm sure in part, it is due to the early hour, but I doubt that most people are sleeping. I'm positive most are heeding the government warning. Poor sheep, not like it matters if the sun has stopped shining. Sadie and I can hole up in the cave for a time, but long-term? Who knows. 
Distracted by this, I almost hit a guy standing in the road. As I narrowly miss him, he slings a rock into my back glass. The glass shattering is harrowing.
"What the heck?" I ask aloud.
"I think he was trying to make us stop," Sadie replies.
For what? I almost ask, but don't. I know for what. The paper mache of civilization has become wet and will soon begin to crumble. I reach over impulsively and squeeze her hand. She rewards me with a weak smile that saddens my heart. We were to be married this spring. I wish now that we hadn't waited. It looks like spring may never come. I push these thoughts out of my mind. There is no room for them anymore. I have to survive this day, and then the next. Anything past that is a luxury that I can ill afford to fantasize about. 
As I top a hill, I see a collection of cars blocking the road ahead. A truck with floodlights illuminates the surrounding area. They are not police cars. An ominous feeling possesses me.
"Please don't stop Logan," Sadie pleads in a shaky breath.
"I wouldn't think of it," I reply and press down on the accelerator.
As we come closer upon the roadblock, to my mounting consternation, I can see that at least two of the men have rifles against their shoulders and point straight at us. My annoyance flares and I entertain the thought of driving directly into the bastards.
"Get down," I manage to get out as the first bullet takes off the driver's side mirror.
Sadie obliges me and quickly gets below the dashboard. Thankfully, this part of Texas is ridiculously flat, and I immediately steer the Jeep to leave the road. I can hear the bullets following behind as another strikes the Jeep. Sadie screams. The round passed through her door near her feet. Why the hell didn't I veer the other way? We are coming up even with the roadblock now, and Sadie's side is facing them.
I try to push down harder on the pedal, but it is already firmly on the floor and cannot go any further. The Jeep is whining viciously as it tries to gain speed. It wants to be an obedient beast. The heart is willing, but it is old, and it shows.
I'm trembling with fury and indignation when two more bullets slam through the back and side glass. I can hear the gunfire fade away as we pull away from them and back onto the road. A few moments later, to my horror, I can see lights flicker on. The bastards are following us.
What to do, what to do? I have no weapons. Well, I have a survival knife packed away in our packs. It wouldn't do much good if it were accessible, and it's not. I still have the old Jeep floored, and I can feel the lights pulling further away for a few moments, and then I can tell that they are gaining. 
Several minutes pass in this fashion. We are a good fifteen minutes from the cave, and at this rate, the Jeep will never make it. Besides that, I don't want to let these maniacs know where I am heading. Think. Think. Think.
Without further thought, I turn off all of the lights and veer off to the left. I drive as far as I can physically make myself drift away from the path that we were on. It is so dark that every inch is painful. I kill the engine. My progress had been slowed to merely rolling forward out of fear of wrecking and being stranded. Less than a minute later the lights top a hill and a caravan of no less than three vehicles speeds by. The thought of them up there ahead is not pleasing, maybe I can go an alternate route.
Twenty minutes later, when I think they're far enough ahead, I depress the clutch to start the Jeep. The engine turns over but will not start. I was afraid of this. Dammit, why did I kill the motor? It's not like they could have heard it. I slam my head into the steering wheel, blaring the horn. I quickly pull my head back. I have to get control of myself and this situation soon. 
 
Chapter 3: Commander Erickson
1

"In my fifteen years sailing the seas I have never seen a darker night," I say to Lieutenant Commander Jenkins.
"It is indeed for me as well, Commander," Jenkins replies.
"How is the crew holding up?" I ask, knowing the answer.
"Not so well, sir. They're a smart bunch, and they see the writing on the wall," Jenkins provides.
"And what is that writing, Commander?" I ask
"That the seas are freezing, will be frozen long before we can make it to shore. That we will either be trapped in the ice or below it," Jenkins says solemnly.
"A fair assessment. Please go below and do what you can to bolster moral Commander," I direct.
"Aye Aye, Commander," Jenkins states and heads below deck.
The situation is dire or more aptly described as desperate. We can't make it to shore, and if we dive we buy a little time, but who knows when we'll be able to surface again.
As if that thought provokes a response, the sea begins to rapidly solidify all around me. I turn to make my way to the hatch to go below. I can feel the temperature slipping further into oblivion. The temperature has gone from uncomfortable to unbearable in a matter of moments. I enter the hatch and slam it shut after me.
"Prepare to dive!" I shout as loudly as I can.
"We have to get below the surface as quickly as we can," I continue.
I can hear the crackling ice outside of the submarine. If it is as bad as it sounds out there, we will be crushed in a matter of moments.
"Quickly, we must dive post-haste!" I shout.
I should have seen this coming. We're never going to dive in time. The sound from outside is menacing. The structural integrity of the vessel is becoming a factor. We could escape through the top only to freeze to death right outside. 
I can feel the boat starting to dive. Thank goodness. A heart-rending sound of ripping steel emanates from the vessel. An enormous snap encourages me that we've broken free. With a final crack, we begin our descent toward the seafloor.
 
2

As I look at my quarters, I can't help to wonder how long it will be before I see the sky again. It seems that may never happen if what I have been told out of Washington is any indication. How the hell does the sun vanish? It would be amusing if it weren't so damn dire. It's hard to believe it was only two months ago when I took the helm of the USS Washington and ordered her out to sea. I was on top of the world. Now she may very well be my tomb. That may be, but at present, she is a blessing. 
So how fortunate are we? I take out a pad and pen and attempt to take stock. Since we have just been commissioned, we have a brand new boat and mostly full stores. When we set out, we had a year's worth of supplies for a crew of one hundred and twenty enlisted and fourteen officers. We have less than a third of that as we were to take on the rest in six weeks. We have been at sea for eight weeks, so we should have around eleven months or so of rations left for a full crew. Since we're not a complete team, that should equate to roughly thirty to thirty-five months. Not perfect, but a damn good bit of time to figure a few things out. It can and will be stretched further as we will start rationing it immediately.
My primary concern, besides those of the environmental kind, is how best to keep order. Also, with a crew partially made up of females, how do I ensure the health and welfare of all of them? Luckily, only the best and brightest are members of this first crew. That should afford us a great deal. They are all dedicated patriots, which I have hand-selected. We should be okay in that regard.
 

Chapter 4: Dr. John Harvey
1

The alarms are maddening; how can they still work when the emergency lights do not. I make my way into the hallway. I scan the floor in front of me and notice a small object. Is that a tampon? Someone must have left in a hurry.
I have to get to the cafeteria, to gather supplies. Mary is following quietly behind me. Occasionally I'll turn around just to verify that she's still there. I step over a bra as I turn down another hallway. We travel down several hallways to a corridor adjacent to the cafeteria. When I round the corner, an unsettling site appears. The path is completely obstructed.
"Fuck!" I scream.
Mary says nothing. For some reason, this really pissed me off. I look around and quickly locate a ventilation shaft. Of course, I can't reach it.
I'm going to try to lift you up Mary, see if you can pull open the vent. I lift her up, and she toys with it for a few minutes, unable to open it.
I put her back down and start to search the nearby offices. I try a chair. I can just reach the vent, but how the hell am I going to get up in it? I step back down and go up and down several hallways looking in every closet I can find. A ladder would be beautiful, though I'm not optimistic I will find one. My luck hasn't really been on of late. 
Finally, I land upon a utility closet of sorts. Inside I find a ladder and a small tool bag. There is also an overused mattress, but I have no need of that right now. I grab the ladder and tool bag and head back to Mary. 
I rapidly remove the vent cover and get inside the vent. It is cramped, but there is enough room. It is dusty and smells musty. I help Mary up, and she follows along behind me.
I make my way toward the cafeteria. At least I think I am. My sense of direction is a little hampered in this deep dark shaft. I abruptly smell patchouli, and it's somehow unsettling. After I crawl a while, I feel a lightning strike detonate in my hand. I have cut it with something very sharp. With a slight reservation, I shine the light on it. It is bleeding profusely. Anger poisons my brain at my own stupidity.
"What's wrong?" Mary asks.
So you decided to rejoin the world? I think, but do not say. I should just leave you in the vent and be done with this whole ordeal.
"I've cut my hand, pretty badly," I say.
"Let me see it," Mary offers.
"Are you a doctor?" I ask as I show her my hand.
"Yes, but not the kind you are referring to. I am a doctor like you, although I did have to complete some of the same classes as med students, so I'll do in a pinch. This laceration looks bad, but it's clean-cut," she states.
Mary rips part of her shirt off and makes short work of my ailment. She has trouble meeting my eyes without blushing. I attain an immediate fondness for her. This person that I was considering leaving only a moment ago. I can tell by the tenderness of her touch that she is a compassionate person. Far more so than I am.
"Thank you," I manage when she finishes.
"Your welcome Dr. Harvey," she replies.
"John, please, call me John," I request.
"Okay John, you can call me Mary then," she says.
Without another word, we start out again. I am more careful now in light of my recent injury. I should have been more cautious. I also find that I am in increasing need to verify that Mary is behind me. What is this strange fondness that I have for her all of a sudden? Did one good act of kindness pierce my despicable heart? Is it the way she looks at me, or rather the way she can't? It's part sexual to be sure, but that's not all.
We travel onward for a few more minutes. We should have reached another vent register by now. I can feel the anxiety steadily building inside of me. All I can see ahead is more ductwork, and Mary is blocking my path behind. Triggered by my growing trepidation, the light begins to fade.
"No, dammit. Not now," I scream at the flashlight as its last bit of light winks out.
Mary lets a meek whimper escape her but says no more. 
There is really nothing else to do but continue forward and hope that I can find a way out. I continue forward. I know it's probably in my head, but it feels as though the shaft is narrowing. As if it's closing in on me. Before long, I am aware that it is not my imagination. The shaft is getting smaller. At once, a blinding pain reverberates through my head. I have hit a dead end.
"I think we've hit an impasse, Mary, are you able to turn around?" I ask her.
"I think so," she says, and I can hear her starting to do so.
"Okay, John, I'm facing back the way we came. Now what?" she asks.
"You will have to move forward until we come back to an intersection with another tunnel so that I can get back in front," I say.
"I, I don't think I can do that, John. I don't think I can," Mary says in a trembling voice.
Is there room for me to climb over her? Maybe, who knows?
"Okay Mary, I'm going to try to get over you. Lie as flat as you can," I say.
Mary doesn't respond, but I can hear her as she positions her body flatly against the bottom of the ventilation shaft. I start climbing over her. I'm trying to be modest, but my body is being pushed down into her. I can feel her skirt being pulled up as I move over her. I don't know whether to stop, back up, or keep going. I'm starting to fear that we may get stuck during this maneuver. Even in my peril, visions of her stunning body flood my mind as man's less than better nature kicks in. I can get my hips over hers, and I feel relief wash over me that we are not trapped in the shaft. Another emotion, disgust at my arousal, covers me as well.
After an indefinable amount of time later, my head once again slams into a dead end. I can tell immediately that it's a grate of some kind under my hands. I work frantically trying to knock it free before insanity can take the last vestige of my mind. It doesn't budge. They created some unyielding grates in the place, I think cynically. I slam my fists repeatedly. I can feel the blood flowing freely from my injury. I'm quite sure I've opened up a gash on my other hand as well. I slam my fists into the grate one final time, and without warning it gives way, and I tumble into the darkness below.